of going to Paradise Falls. For Carl and his wife Ellie, Paradise Falls represents the ultimate place to retire and live, like Florida! So Carl makes a promise to Ellie that one day they will travel to Paradise Falls. Well, unfortunately Ellie dies before Carl can fulfill his promise. Years later, Carl is an elderly man who is forced by the court to live in a retirement home. But Carl comes up with a scheme to keep his promise to Ellie—he turns his house into an airship using thousands of helium balloons. On his voyage he also brings along a boy named Russell who needs to earn his final merit badge by helping the elderly. Along the way Carl and Russell pick up a bird named Kevin in search of his baby chicks. They all become good friends on their trip to Paradise Falls. On the way, however, a mean character named Muntz kidnaps Kevin and sets Carl’s house on fire. In that moment, Carl has a big decision to make. Does he save his house or does he save Kevin? Carl chooses to save his house and he and Russell finally arrive in Paradise Falls. But Russell is very upset with Carl for leaving their friend behind. Russell takes some balloons and goes sailing off to find Kevin. Fearing he is in danger, Carl goes after him but he realizes that too many balloons have popped and his house is too heavy to save Russell and Kevin. The only way he can save them is by throwing out all of his furniture and possessions to make his house lighter. He’s ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org terrified to let it all go. It means so much to him. But he knows what he needs to do. So he makes the decision to let it all go. It empties his house of all his possessions. The house becomes lighter and he floats away and saves Russell and Kevin. They are all back together in Carl’s house and they eventually land on a cliff next to Paradise Falls, fulfilling Carl’s promise to Ellie. What do you need to let go of to go higher in life? What do you need to let go of to experience God’s resurrection for your life? Are there things weighing you down in life? Think about the weight that God wants lift from your shoulders? Can you let it go? Think about the new life you could have. Think of the joy, meaning and purpose that could be yours. Think about the healing and strength that you could experience if you just let it all go. God is just waiting for you to step out of your fear. When you do, the stone will be rolled away and you will find new life. Amen. Pasadena Community Church RRRRRooooollllllllllinininining ggggAAAAAwwwwwaaaaay yyyyttttthhhhhe eeeeSSSSStttttooooonnnnne eeeeSunday, April 5, 2015 Easter Sunday Mark 16:1-Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor This morning I want to talk with you about how you can experience the resurrection in your life now. I am going to tell how you can experience new life today. Because the promise of Easter is that the same power of God that raised Jesus from the dead can give you new life today. It’s not just about when you die, although that is true as well. Easter promises that our lives can be resurrected from disappointment, discouragement, defeat, shame, guilt, and anything else that has kept us down in life. That’s what the eggs and the lilies and the music and the energy of today is about. Because Christ lives we can live! His Spirit can give us joy, meaning, purpose, hope, and love and those things can be the dominant forces in our lives. I am sure for many of you that sounds really good, doesn’t it? You’re sick and tired of the way your life is. It’s been a long time since you have been happy and joyful about anything. Life has just become a rote routine of work where you pray for Friday. Life is the same thing over and over again with no end in sight. Or maybe some of you have experienced set backs or tragedy and you wonder if those events will be the defining moments of your life. Perhaps you have made some bad decisions and you feel that those bad decisions will follow you around like a grim reaper the rest of your life. You are ready for a change. You are ready for new life and joy. You are ready for a resurrection. Of course, I am sure there are some of you who think that all of this sounds too good to be true. You consider yourself a realistic person, perhaps even a bit cynical and skeptical. You’re here because it is tradition or because you get a good brunch out of it. But, truthfully, you don’t believe all this resurrection business. You can’t really believe any of this is true. A nice story, yeah, but fictional. And even if it was true maybe you think your life is too far gone to be resurrected in any way. You are who you are, life is what it is, and that’s that way it will always be. Now I am certain there are many of you here who do believe in the resurrection of Christ but you just can’t believe that same resurrection power can make any difference to your life today. There was a time as a child when you believed in it and you had a lot of hope. But now those ideas seem like a dream. Life now is more life taking than it is life giving. Well, what I am going to reveal to you today from the Easter story will help you discover the hope you are desperate for and the new life you have been looking for. If you give me just a few minutes I believe you will truly see and believe that God can resurrect your life. For the resurrection of Christ is just as real today as it was 2,000 years ago. I remember one Easter a few years ago a lady came through the receiving line to greet me and she said something to me that I will never forget. She said, “Nice message pastor, but you left something out.” I said, “What is that?” She said, “You never told me how.” I replied, “How what?” “You never told me how to experience new life.” Then it dawned on me. For so long I had just told the Easter story and I thought that was enough. But that isn’t enough. I had never really told people how to apply the Easter message to their lives. So that’s what I am going to do today. I am not just going to tell you the story of Easter which you have heard a million times. I am not just going to proclaim that Jesus is risen and that he is alive. I am not just going to tell you that because Jesus lives you can have hope. I am going to tell you how you can experience the resurrection for yourself not matter who you are or what you have done. I am going to tell you how you can apply the power behind the most important event in history to your life today. So let’s take a closer look at what Christians believe is the most pivotal event in history – Easter. And I want us to take a look at the Easter story from the gospel of Mark because I believe Mark’s perspective on the Easter story is the most fascinating of all four gospels. This is how it begins: When the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices so that they might go to anoint Jesus’ body. –Mark 16:1 Now that seems rather odd doesn’t it? Jesus is dead. He’s been shut up in a tomb and yet these three ladies went to “Bed, Bath and Beyond” right after Jesus died and bought some spices to put on Jesus’ dead body? Why anoint a dead body? That’s weird. What’s going on? Well, it wasn’t to embalm the body. It was to reduce the stench of the decomposing body. They believed Jesus was dead. And they were just following Jewish custom. But they had a bigger issue to deal with. Take a look: Very early on the first day of the week, just after sunrise, they were on their way to the tomb and they asked each other, “Who will roll the stone away from the entrance of the tomb?” –Mark 16:2-3 So these three ladies who loved Jesus so much and wanted to do one more nice thing to honor his memory were walking to Jesus’ tomb. And you can imagine their pain. They had just witnessed their beloved teacher and friend getting executed in the most brutal way imaginable. Their hopes and dreams were shattered. They were probably numb with grief as they walked to the tomb. Suddenly it dawned on them that they would not be able to roll the stone away from the tomb. It was just too big, too heavy. And I imagine they thought, “Well, we probably won’t be able to do this because we simply will not be able to roll that big stone out of the way. We probably will not be able to do one more honorable thing for our Lord. But let’s just go there so at least we can say we tried.” Look what happens next: But when they looked up, they saw that the stone, which was very large, had been rolled away. –Mark 16:4 Here’s a picture that is a good representation of what the tomb of Jesus looked like with the stone rolled away. This is something of what these women found when they got to the tomb. The stone had been rolled away! They had not prepared for that! They thought the tomb would be sealed shut with something that could never be moved. But when they got there it had been rolled away! Look what happens next: As they entered the tomb, they saw a young man dressed in a white robe sitting on the right side, and they were alarmed. “Don’t be alarmed,” he said. “You are looking for Jesus the Nazarene, who was crucified. He has risen! He is not here. See the place where they laid him.” –Mark 16:5-6 Wow! So they enter the tomb, not sure what they would find. And there is this young messenger in a white robe sitting in the very place Jesus’ body had been. We don’t know if he was an angel or a human messenger. But whoever he was he scared the living daylights out of them. Did someone move his body? What happened? And the messenger made it clear that Jesus had risen from the dead! He was gone? Where did he go? Well let’s look: “But go, tell his disciples and Peter, ‘He is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him, just as he told you.’” –Mark 16:7 The messenger said to the women, “Don’t just stand here with your mouths open! Did you hear what I said? Your Lord has risen! Go tell everybody the good news! Everything he said is true. He is alive. He is risen! Tell his disciples! He will be in Galilee!” So you can imagine how thrilled these three ladies must have been, right? Their teacher, their Savior was truly the Savior! They thought, “Everything he said was true! He is risen! Halleluiah! Let’s go spread the good news!” That’s what they thought and did, right? Nope. Look at the end of the story in Mark. Here it is: Trembling and bewildered, the women went out and fled from the tomb. They said nothing to anyone, because they were afraid. –Mark 16:8 What? Huh? That’s it?! They ran away. Didn’t say a word. They were terrified. The end. Now, I know some of you are thinking, “Where’s the rest of it? Where are the dramatic appearances of Jesus to his disciples found in the other gospels? Where’s the joy? This is no way to end a resurrection story!” Well, the church in later years thought so too, which is why they added the rest of the story to the gospel of Mark in later years. But most experts believe this is how the original manuscript of Mark ends. This is how Mark wanted to end his gospel and Easter story, with the word “afraid.” Doesn’t make sense, right? I mean, Mark knew the stories of Jesus appearing to his disciples after his death. He knew them well. But he chose to leave them out. He chose not to include them. And the big question is why? And, even more importantly, why were these three women so afraid? Why were they paralyzed by fear after receiving the greatest news in the world? The answer reveals why so many of us are held back from experiencing resurrection in our lives. The answer reveals why so many of us don’t have the joy, hope and peace of Easter in our lives. So why did Mark end his gospel with the women being afraid even though he knew the rest of the story? Because he wanted us to know the most important thing about Easter: Resurrection Brings Profound Change As the women stood there with their mouths to the floor, they were not terrified because Jesus had risen. They were terrified because they were confronted with the reality that everything in their lives was about to change. Their lives were about to be turned upside down by the living power of Christ. And, folks, when you are confronted with that truth it is terrifying. And so as Mark ends his gospel he is saying, “Jesus is really alive. Are you ready? Are you prepared for the transformation he comes to bring to your life?” If that scares you, you are in good company. It scared the three women at the tomb. I like how Sara Ofner-Seals puts it, “Whenever we encounter new things in life we aren’t prepared for, it often scares us. We try to ignore it. We look the other way or we run in the opposite direction. We just aren’t ready to let go of what was in order to receive what may be. We just aren’t ready to roll back that stone and look inside. We like to cling to what is familiar, even if the familiar is unhealthy” (parkchurchnorwich.org). So often what prevents us from experiencing resurrection is our unwillingness to let go of those things in life that are taking our life away. The power of Christ is available, but we are unavailable. The question of Easter is this: What are the stones in my life that need to be rolled away? What do I need to let go of, what am I afraid to let go of, in order to experience resurrection? Am I willing to let go of those things that are preventing me from experiencing resurrection in my life? Am I willing to let go of that bitterness, that resentment, that habit, that relationship, that attitude, that anger, that pride, that sin, that secret? Am I willing to roll those stones away to find new life? If you are, here is the good news: the moment we are willing to roll that stone away and receive God’s resurrection power we find what the women found at the tomb – God has already rolled our stone away. Again, Ofner-Seals gives a great insight: “When those three women arrived at the tomb that morning they found that even in the midst of their doubt and fear God had already been at work.” The key was they showed up and were willing to roll the stone away. And that’s all God asks of us – to simply let go of those stones and desire to roll them away to make room for God’s resurrection power. We don’t have to do the heavy lifting. God does that. All we have to do is let it go and allow God to roll it away. You see, it’s okay if you are afraid and have doubts. That’s normal. The three women were terrified. The disciples were terrified. They had scattered. We just have to trust God and know that our resurrection is on other side of our fear. The resurrection we desire is on the other side of our fear. We simply must be willing to step out of our fear and step in to God’s best for us. I am a true connoisseur of great art and film. And this week as I was preparing this message I thought of a film that only true lovers and critics of great film can appreciate – the Pixar movie “UP.” How many of you have seen this movie? It is about a man named Carl who dreams 