we give; it’s the size of our risk that impresses Jesus. Think about it. The person that the New Testament and Jesus handed down to history as a great example of faith was a person who threw in two bucks in the offering plate. The person Jesus wanted us to remember was a poor widow who could barely rub two dollars together! It was the size of her risk that impressed Jesus! If we put all that we have and all that we are at God’s disposal he can accomplish things through us beyond our imagination. Remember the parable of the mustard seed? It was the smallest of seeds yet it grew to be the biggest of bushes so that birds would nest in its branches. How did something so small grow into something so big? The power of God! If you are someone here today who thinks you don’t have much to offer, I will say this to you: Sometimes God prefers small, simple things because it showcases his power! Sometimes when big things are given, attention is given to the giver and not on what God can do through the giver. But when God is given something small he loves impressing us by doing something extraordinary with it! Small things risked greatly for God can do awesome things. I close with a powerful example of what I am talking about. Here is a picture of Andrea and her family. She writes a blog called True stories of a Midwest Yankee. She and her family were going through a very difficult time last year. Her husband was let go from his job because of cut backs. They were barely surviving. One day she went to the grocery store with her kids and the EBT machine was down and she couldn’t use her government assistance card. A lady behind her she didn’t know graciously paid her bill. She was so moved by the gesture that she posted this letter on her blog: ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org Dear woman behind me in line at the grocery store, “You don't know me. You have no clue what my life has been like since October 1, 2013. You have no clue that my family has gone through the wringer. You have no clue that we have faced unbelievable hardship. You have no clue we have been humiliated, humbled, destitute. What you do know is I tried to buy my kids some food and that the EBT machine was down so I couldn't buy that food. I didn't have any cash or my debit card with me. I only had my government assistance card. All you heard was me saying "My kids are hungry now and I have no other way of paying for this." You didn't judge me. You didn't snarl "Maybe you should have less kids." You didn't say "Well, get a job and learn to support yourself." You didn't look away in embarrassment or shame for me. You didn't make any assumptions at all. What you did was you paid that $17.38 grocery bill for us. You gave my kids bananas, yogurt, apple juice, cheese sticks, and a peach ice tea for me; a rare treat and splurge. You let me hug you….. That $17.38 may not have been a lot for you, but it was priceless to us. In the car my kids couldn't stop gushing about you; our "angel in disguise." They prayed for you. They prayed you would be blessed. You restored some of our lost faith. One simple and small action changed our lives. You probably have forgotten about us by now, but we haven't forgotten about you. You will forever be a part of us even though we don't even know your name. You’ll never know how much the Lord can do through you until you are willing to take a risk for Him! Amen Pasadena Community Church WWWWWhhhhho ooooAAAAArrrrre eeeeYYYYYooooou uuuuTTTTTrrrrryyyyyiiiiinnnnng ggggttttto ooooIIIIImmmmmppppprrrrreeeeessssssssss? ????~ All In Mark 12: 41-44 Sunday, April 19, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor We humans can be strange sometimes. Many of us spend crazy amounts of time and energy trying to impress people. And the ironic thing is most of the time we don’t really care for the people we are trying to impress! We don’t like their company. We wouldn’t go bowling with them. Our need for approval and recognition is strong that it’s not enough to impress the people we do like. It’s like the old saying, “Too many people buy things they don’t need with money they don’t have to impress people they don’t like.” It’s true. Advertisers prey on our need to impress all the time. Many of the ads you see are about buying a product so you can impress other people – a car that will make people look twice, a golf club that will hit the ball farther than your buddies, a workout system that will give you a body people will envy. Of course, sometimes we try to impress people because we fear rejection. We are so afraid people will not like us for who we are that we try our very best to impress them so they will accept us. It never occurs to us that any relationship built on trying to impress rather than genuine friendship is never healthy and never lasts. But often we go ahead trying to impress anyway and it can get us into trouble. We can go into debt buying things to impress people. We can say things we would never say or tell jokes we would never tell just to impress people. We can give into peer pressure and put ourselves in comprising positions just to impress people. We can compromise our values and principals just to impress people. And often times the people we are trying to impress don’t care and aren’t even paying attention! And we have risked and given up so much. And for what? To try to get the approval of someone we probably don’t even like. The truth is a life spent trying to impress people is miserable and exhausting. I mean have you ever seen an unhappy horse or a depressed bird? No! Why? Because they are not trying to impress other birds and horses. Trying to impress others simply leads to unhappiness because we betray the person God created us to be. I like what Paul said in Galatians when he was talking about preaching the gospel instead of pleasing people. Am I now trying to win the approval of human beings, or of God? Or am I trying to please people? If I were still trying to please people, I would not be a servant of Christ. –Galatians 1:10 Paul really simplifies it for us. We have two lives to choose from: A life spent pleasing people or a life spent pleasing Christ. But we can’t do both. So it begs the question: Have you ever thought about what impresses Jesus? Have you ever thought about the qualities in people that he loves and admires? Have you ever thought about what causes Jesus to look twice in amazement? Let’s face it. In the end, it doesn’t matter what other people think of us. What matters is what Jesus thinks of us. That’s what counts. On our death bed, we are not going to be thinking about all the ways we failed at impressing people. We are not going to be thinking about the expensive car we wish we had owned or the big house we wish we could have had or the power or the money or the fame we missed out on. We are not going to be thinking about the people we failed to impress. But I tell you what we will be thinking about – the moments we made Jesus proud, those moments when we impressed Jesus. Those will be the moments that matter. Those will be moments that count. So what exactly impresses Jesus? Do we really know? What are the things he really loves and admirers? What really pleases him? Well fortunately, the gospels make that clear. The gospels provide several fascinating accounts of Jesus encountering people who really impressed and amazed him. So for the next several weeks we are going to take a look at these encounters and I hope this series motivates us to dedicate our lives impressing Jesus because that is the only life worth living. We begin with a keen and perceptive observation Jesus made about a woman who was unaware that Jesus was even watching her. And the same is true of us. We often go about our lives unaware or forgetting that Jesus is observing us. Are we acting in a way that impresses him or disappoints him? Well the lady Jesus watched one day impressed the heck out of him. Let’s look at what happened: Jesus sat down opposite the place where the offerings were put and watched the crowd putting their money into the temple treasury. –Mark 12:41 So Jesus was hanging out around the temple and he decided to do some “people watching.” Have you ever done that? Just sat in a public place and watched people? Brandy and I love doing that. You can learn a lot about people just by watching them walking through an airport, shopping at the mall or interacting with someone at the bank. Well, Jesus was doing just that. He decided to watch people walk into the temple and throw in their offering. In those days when you walked into the temple there was a container you could throw your offering into. It looked like an upside down trumpet. This money was used to take care of the expenses of the temple. So Jesus was just sitting there close enough to the entrance to the temple to watch people walk by and throw their offering in. What did he observe? Many rich people threw in large amounts. But a poor widow came and put in two very small copper coins, worth only a few cents. –Mark 12:42 As Jesus is people watching near the temple he sees a bunch of wealthy folks casually throw in large amounts of money. For them these large amounts were just a drop in the bucket. They had so much. It was nothing for them to give large amounts out of their abundance. But then Jesus watched carefully as a poor woman with no husband, children in tow and very little in her pocket walked humbly to the offering container and dropped in two small coins. Now, here’s a picture of what the two coins this widow threw in probably looked like (the widow’s mite). For us, those two Roman coins would have been worth about two dollars. And that’s all she had! This really impressed Jesus. Take a look: Calling his disciples to him, Jesus said, “Truly I tell you, this poor widow has put more into the treasury than all the others.” –Mark 12:43 Jesus was so impressed with this woman that he called over his disciples and said, “Hey guys, come over here. Get over here! You see that woman over there? Take a good look at her. She just gave more than anyone who came through the temple today!” “How much money are you talking about Lord?” replied the disciples. “I’m not talking about money” Jesus said. Well what was Jesus talking about? “They all gave out of their wealth; but she, out of her poverty, put in everything—all she had to live on.” –Mark 12:44 You see, Jesus was amazed at this woman because she didn’t know where her next meal was coming from. She didn’t have any means or resources. In those days women had no rights and if they did not have husbands they were left completely in the cold. She was barely scraping by. Barely surviving! And yet she put everything she had into the treasury. For Jesus it wasn’t about the size of her donation; it was about the size of her risk. It was about the size of her trust. What impressed Jesus was that she risked everything for God. He said those who gave a lot didn’t risk anything. Dropping those large donations in the bucket didn’t cost them anything! But what the widow gave cost her everything! Jesus was impressed because she risked everything for God. Have you ever impressed Jesus that much? Have you ever risked that much for God? I tell you it does impress the heck out of Jesus. Have you ever put everything you are and all that you have in the hands of God and have been terrified about what was going to happen? If you’ve ever done that, Jesus is impressed. Jesus is impressed with folks who get to a place where they have risked so much, given so much, sacrificed so much, that all they can do is rely on God. Have you ever done that? I have discovered in my life and faith that when we arrive at that level of risk Jesus is so impressed that he jumps in and does extraordinary things through us. Pasadena Community Church is the vital church it is today because the ancestors of our church were willing to take a great risk. Back in 1929 the Bishop of Florida appointed J. Wallace Hamilton to this church. Guess how many they had in his first service? 34. Guess what the total offering was? $5.75! It was 1929. It was the great depression. So what did Hamilton do? He decided to risk the life of the church by moving it to a new location seven miles away, where we stand today. Back then there was nothing here. It was like moving the church to a ghost town. People thought Hamilton was nuts! But he took a risk, knowing that God was calling him to do it. He also knew if he did it, the church would grow. And grow it did! What God did through Hamilton and Pasadena Community Church was no small miracle. From the church’s humble beginnings, which included sparse crowds, living through the Great Depression and a second world war, Hamilton was able to grow Pasadena Community Church to a membership of over 3,500 members. Attendance on some Sundays reached over 10,000. People would be here on vacation and if they couldn’t get a seat in the sanctuary they would stay in their cars and listen to the service in a “drive in” church type of setting. The church grew because Hamilton and the ancestors of PCC took a great risk for God! Just imagine what God can continue to do through us if we are willing to take a great risk for him! Jesus is impressed with those who take greats risks for God! He’s impressed with those who are willing to go outside their comfort zone and not always play it safe. This is what I have learned: You’ll never know how much the Lord can do through you until you are willing to take a risk for Him. A group of California high school students had spent three months preparing and planning to go to Mexico during Easter break to help the poor. They had prayed that God would use them in a mighty way. Anticipating an exciting week of ministry, they journeyed to a small church near Mexicali. Upon arriving at the small rural village on a Sunday morning, the students saw that the church where they were going to serve had been badly burned. The roof had caved in, and only the four walls remained. They cautiously made their way into what was left of the building, while a hymn was being sung in Spanish. They were greeted by the puzzled stares of a weary, discouraged Mexican pastor and nine parishioners who were midway through their Sunday morning service. It was apparent that the congregation had never received the group’s letters explaining their plans to serve and had no idea that the group was coming to spend the week with them. At the end of the hymn, the pastor stopped the service, walked back to the group of high school students and said, “Qué pasa?” (Which the group interpreted to mean, “What in the world are you rich white kids doing in our church?”) After a long silence, one of the students spoke: “We are Christians, and we are here to serve.” On hearing this the pastor’s eyes brimmed with tears. “Some people in the village burned down our church six months ago,” he explained. “We’ve been praying that God would send help, but we had given up hope that help was ever coming. Praise be to God!” The thirty-five high school students were stunned silent. They had heard many times that God wanted to use them; now they were experiencing it for the first time. Amazed, one of the students turned to another and said, “I can’t believe it. We’re an answer to prayer!” God does want to use us and he will—if we will only put our lives in his hands and be willing to take a risk. We can be the answer to someone’s prayer. We can make a difference in this world if we are willing to take a risk for God. You’ll never know how much the Lord can do through you until you are willing to take a risk for Him! Does this mean God wants us to make dumb choices and be reckless and foolish? No, but it does mean that the only way we can do great things for God is if we are willing to take a great risks for him. And there are times when God calls us to do that. You may ask, “How will I know if God wants me to take a risk for him?” All I can say is, you’ll know. If you’ve prayed about it, you’ll know. You will know in your heart. Is God calling you to risk something – time, money, resources, yourself? Remember we may fail God, but God never fails us! You may be thinking, “Well I don’t have much to risk. I don’t have much to give. What do I have to offer?” Remember, it’s not the size of what 