Whitesnake concert. Well, especially at a Whitesnake concert! Now for those of you who are appalled that I, your pastor, went to a Whitesnake concert, I have news for you: Guess who Jesus hung out with! If Jesus came back today he wouldn’t come to church he would go to a Whitesnake concert! And I believe he would enjoy it! Tony Campolo tells the story of one of his deacons who was depressed. Campolo told him that if he would go out and help others he would feel better. So, the deacon went to a nursing home and got to know a man. He went to see him every week and would hold his hand during a chapel service. One day the deacon arrived at the nursing home to find his new friend not in his usual spot. He checked with a nurse, and she informed him that he had taken a turn for the worse. The deacon went into the hospital room, and all the tubes were hooked up to his body. The deacon picked up the man’s hand and prayed that God would receive his friend into his everlasting arms. The man squeezed the deacon’s hand and opened his eyes. The deacon knew he had connected with him. The next day the deacon went to check on his friend, and he discovered that he died shortly after he had left the day before. But he met a middle-aged woman while he was there, and he found out that she was his friend’s daughter. She said, “Thank you! Thank you! You did so much for my dad. Because of you he died in peace.” Deacon asked, “What do you mean?” She replied, “He told me that every week Jesus would come by and hold his hand and he did not want to die until he held the hand of Jesus one more time.” I don’t know what you think being a Christian is, but I believe it is being the hands of Christ in this world. It is being the arms of Christ in this world. It is being the feet of Christ in this world. It is being the heart of Christ in this world. Paul Tournier once said, “Every Christian needs two conversions – one out of the world, and one back into it.” I believe that. The Christian faith is not just about personal piety, reaching up to God and reaching in to ourselves. The Christian faith is only complete when our reaching up and reaching in leads us to reach out to others. Have you ever asked, “Someone should do something about this?” Well, could it be that “someone” is you? God wants to do extraordinary things in this world but He needs the resources He has given you to do it! Don’t hold back. Sources: -Clay Christiansen, How Will You Measure Your Life? -Mike Slaughter, Putting God First in Living and Giving -Martin Thielin, What’s The Least I Can Believe and Still Be a Christian? -Tony Campolo, Let Me Tell You a Story Pasadena Community Church How Will You Measure Your Life? By How and What You Give Sunday, August 9, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Today we continue our three part series entitled, “How will you measure your life?” It’s pretty straight forward. The world tells us we should measure our lives by how much money we have, what cars we own, the achievements we have made, and the power and status we have attained. But, in the end, is this really how we should measure our lives? In the end is this really how we want to be remembered? This series is based on a great book by Clay Christiansen called How Will You Measure Your Life? Christensen is a Harvard Business professor who surprisingly tells his students that their lives should not be measured by their success and achievements in business. In the prologue of his book he explains why he gives his students this advice. Christians explains that as a Harvard alumnus he has learned through attending many class reunions and observing many of his classmates that success does not bring true happiness and meaning. Although many of his classmates have high paying jobs and are at the pinnacle of success they are personally miserable and their lives are a mess. So Christiansen warns his students not to make success the source of their happiness because it will never bring contentment and meaning to their lives. So what will bring contentment and meaning to our lives? How should we measure our lives? Well, the Bible is real clear about that. And in this series we are going to see how God wants us to measure our lives who and how we love, By what and how we give, By who and how we serve. Today our focus is giving. God will measure our lives not by how much we get but by how much we give. Jesus told us that “it is better to give than to receive” (Acts 20:35). He also said, “Whoever loses their life, gives their live away for my sake will save it, will find life, but whoever holds on to their life for themselves, will lose life, will never find life” (Luke 9:24). It’s clear. Jesus tells us that God measures each of our lives by how much of it we are willing to give away for him. Now why? Well, first because living a life of giving is the only way to find meaning and happiness in this world. If you are looking for fun, joy, meaning and satisfaction, give your life away in service to Christ. The happiest people I know are the most generous people I know. And the most miserable people I know are the stingiest people I know. Throughout my ministry I have learned with few exceptions that the ones who complain the most in the church give the least to the church and the ones who are the most joyous give the most. But the other and even more important reason why God measure our lives by how much we are willing to give away is this: When God wants something done in this world he counts on us to do it! That’s right. We are God’s agents in the world. Take a look at this passage that spells it out: God can pour on the blessings in astonishing ways so that you’re ready for anything and everything, more than just ready to do what needs to be done. He gives you something you can then give away, which grows into full-formed lives, robust in God, wealthy in every way, so that you can be generous in every way, producing with us great praise to God. -2nd Corinthians 9:8 and 11 Did you see that? God gives you (us) something we can give away, and as we give it away the more we get back so that we can continue to be generous! You know what this means? We are to be the channel through which God’s blessings and redemptive power flows to the world! As we receive blessings from God, we are to give those blessings away. Our talents, gifts and resources are what God will use to carry out his redemptive work in the world! So, God is TRYING to meet the needs of others and heal the pain in this world, but God can only give as much as we are willing to give away. We are His vessels! When God wants something done he counts on us to do it! You want to know something that will blow your mind? There is only one incident in the Bible ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org where God meets the needs of others WITHOUT using his people – God providing manna to the Israelites in the desert. Note that the manna stopped once the people reached the Promised Land. Every other time God wanted to help others he did it through his people. We are the hands and feet of Jesus in the world! We are the body of Christ in this world! What do we think that means? When the people of God do not give financially to the church something God wants done does not get done. It is as simple as that. We are the only bank account God has. There is no other way for God to meet the needs of people except through us. When the people of God are not faithful to their vows to serve with their gifts, something God wants done does not get done. We are the only hands God has! When the people of God are silent when injustices occur across this world, something God wants done does not get done. We are the only voice God has! When we ask God, “Why aren’t you doing anything about all of this suffering?” God’s response is, “I am and I have. I have given my people all the resources they need to change and heal this world. I will never stop giving blessings so you can be a blessing, so why aren’t you doing anything about it?” Mike Slaughter reminds us that “God’s blessing and our giving are interconnected in our lives.” They go hand in hand. That is how God made us. That is how God made this world to work. We are blessed, we give blessings away, and God multiplies our blessings so we can give even more away. The more we give the more God gives for us to give away! Look at the story of Jesus feeding five thousand families in the wilderness in Mark 6. That was Jesus’ great demonstration that God releases his resources through his people! A big crowd was hungry. Jesus told the disciples to feed them. The disciples said, “What? We can’t do that? Do you know how much money that would cost?” Well, Jesus didn’t accept their excuse of what they didn’t have and he doesn’t accept that excuse from us today. Jesus said, “How many loaves do you have?” Slaughter interprets Jesus’ question to mean “Don’t look at what you don’t have, look at what you do have!” Look at what God has given you to give away. The disciples found five loaves and two fish. Jesus told the disciples to seat the people on the grass and tell them to get ready for a feast. The disciples thought Jesus had lost his mind. Jesus blessed the bread and fish and fed five thousand families with it. You see, God blessed and multiplied what they had to give away. The disciples had enough faith in Jesus to give him what they had and he multiplied it! That’s what God always does – when we give Him what we have He multiplies it so that there is more than we could ever imagine. In the story, after everyone is fed, there is such an abundance that there is more left over! You know what is also important in that story is that Jesus didn’t serve the crowd; he gave the disciples the food to serve the crowd. They were his hands then and we are his hands today. And if a church forgets this it begins to die. The effectiveness of a church rises and falls based on its willingness to be the hands and feet of Christ in this world. The problem is that many Christians have bought into the unbiblical notion that faith is personal but not public. It is one of the deadliest heresies to face the church in 2,000 years! If you look at many of the churches in America today they only emphasize personal faith and ignore public faith. They want people to affirm their faith in Christ, which is in important. And they want people to have good morals, which is very important. But they seem to completely ignore the biblical mandate to care about social issues like poverty, peacemaking and the environment. In short, there is a “hole in our gospel” and it is the biblical mandate to join Jesus in the world and help him free the oppressed and bring justice to his children – to do something about human trafficking, genocide, to do something and poverty – to do something about the children who die of starvation every day. Martin Thielen reminds us that when many of the churches in America address social issues they limit their involvement to only two issues: abortion and homosexuality. That’s it. Now, there is no doubt those are two very important issues, but they don’t begin to cover all the social issues that God cares about! If you read the Bible, and I mean really read the Bible, it is abundantly clear that God deeply cares about poverty, the environment, race relations, peacemaking, health care, immigration, taxes, debt relief, just court systems, fair wages, prisons, and hunger. Thielen writes, “Since these issues matter to God, they should also matter to God’s church.” You want to know what young people care about today? They care about social justice issues. When they don’t see the church caring about these issues, they write the church off. Why should they care about the church when they see that the church doesn’t care about the important issues they care about? You want to know how the church is going to reach the next generation and be a relevant force in the future? By being faithful to Jesus’ call to care about social justice. When we take social justice issues seriously the world will take us seriously. Of course when I named all of these issues, what did you think about? It wasn’t the church. It was politics! And that is our problem. These issues have become so politically charged that the church just runs away from them. And evil loves that! Here is the truth and you can take it to the bank. All political parties are equally sinful. Jesus is not a Democrat, a Republican, or an Independent. And Jesus is certainly not an American! You know who Jesus is? He is the Savior of the World! Jesus does not want the church dividing and corrupting itself in politics. You know what Jesus wants! Jesus wants us to join him in the world and help him let the oppressed go free! I want to be very clear about something. God cares deeply about personal faith. God cares about our personal salvation and being in a relationship with him. God cares about our moral behavior and being pure. God cares about evangelism and making disciples. That Bible is clear about that. And I am passionate about these things too. If you have heard me preach for any length of time you know these are important issues to me. But a healthy biblical faith is personal and public. You can’t have one without the other! As Jim Wallis reminds us, “Faith is personal but never private!” The closer you get to Christ the more he draws you into the community and world for you to see the suffering that he sees and inspires you help him! Jesus is out in the world begging us to help him lift up the weak. The prophet Micah declares, “What does the Lord require of you? To do justice, love mercy, and walk humbly with God!” Jesus says an astonishing thing in John 14. Take a look. Very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me will do the works I have been doing, and they will do even greater things than these, because I am going to the Father. –John 14:12 Wow! What a verse! How is that possible? Let me explain. Christ has always existed. The first chapter of John explains this fact. But when Christ was in bodily form in Jesus, he was limited. He could only touch and love one person or one group at a time. However, when Christ went back to the Father, his Spirit was able to infuse each of his followers. This means that his ability to love is multiplied, and Christ is able to reach millions of people through us. We are literally the body of Christ reaching out to the world! And Jesus is chomping at the bit inside of us to reach out and love and change others. The opportunities are all around us. We just have to open our eyes. My colleague told me about a minister who likes to go to Nordstroms department store at Christmas. Her name is Claire. She really does not buy anything. She just fills a Nordstroms' bag with paper and walks around enjoying music, lights and other sights and sounds of Christmas. One year she was on the top floor where women’s clothing was located. An elevator opened and a bag lady appeared. She was caked in dirt. She had a shopping bag in her hand that contained all of her belongings. Claire noticed a nice saleswoman approach the lady and ask, “Can I help you?” The bag lady replied, “I’m looking for a cocktail dress.” Well, it was obvious to Claire that the lady could never afford a cocktail dress. But the saleswoman continued to be gracious and said, “Oh, we have a great selection!” She found three dresses for her, the cheapest being around $3,000, and then led her to the dressing room. Claire was really intrigued by all of this, and so she moved closer in order eavesdrops on them. A few minutes later the bag lady came out of the dressing room and said, “I’ve changed my mind. I am not going to buy anything.” Saleswoman replied “Oh, that’s okay. If you are ever in Nordstrom’s again, here’s my card. It would be a pleasure to wait on you again.” Claire could not believe the attitude of the saleswoman. So, after the bag lady had walked away, she approached the saleswoman, intending to find out exactly what had gotten in to this saleslady. Before Claire could open her mouth, she found her answer. On the saleswoman’s blouse was a pin with the letters WWJD – “What Would Jesus Do?” In Romans 8 we are told that the same Spirit that was in Christ Jesus dwells in us! It is Christ who is alive in us, and he wants to love and connect with others through us. The world needs this so bad! We live in an age that sociologists call, “The age of the lonely crowd.” This means that we are with each other but we don’t connect with each other. We e-mail and text each other, but we don’t connect with each other. When was the last time you really connected with someone? When was the last time you treated someone as a child of God and connected with them? They are a lot of lonely people out there. This issue came into focus for me this week as I attended a very uplifting concert at Ruth Eckerd Hall. It was a Whitesnake concert. I just love the arts! For those of you who don’t know, Whitesnake is a hard rock band that was very popular in the 80’s and early 90’s. And, like many hard rock bands of that era, they have gained a second life touring around the country reminding folks of my generation how much fun their music was and is. If you look up the band and listen to their music many of you may not like it, but I admit I am a fan of hard rock. Well, Brandy and I arrived at the concert and when we arrived at our seats we found a young man, about 20 years old, sitting by himself. He greeted us like he had known us for years! “Hey! Aren’t these seats awesome? I’m so excited! This is going to be great! I wonder what song they are going to sing first….” And this kid would not stop talking! He told me he came to the concert alone because he couldn’t find anyone to come with him. He said his parents didn’t want to go. I said, “They don’t like Whitesnake? Well, it’s their loss, right?” Well, the entire concert the kid kept hitting my shoulder in excitement and yelling, “This is awesome! Have you ever seen anything like this? Wow! How cool! Look at that! Look at that!” I still can’t hear anything! I must admit that the experience touched me. It reminded how lonely people are. The kid just wanted someone to connect with him. I am sure he was hoping someone would sit next to him and share his excitement. And I did! We had a ball! There are a lot of lonely people out there and Jesus is dying to connect with them through us, even at a 