confessed that he did not know her husband. She replied, “I thought so. I didn’t recognize you. But it doesn’t really matter.” Then she squeezed his arm so hard it hurt and said, “You’ll never, ever know, what this means to me.” When I talked with people about those who have helped them the most, they never name a philosopher. You know who they usually name? A quiet, unassuming person who was there whenever needed. Someone who listened more than talked. Someone who didn’t keep looking down at a watch, but instead hugged, touched and cried. Someone who was available. There are a lot of lonely and hurting people out there. Take a risk and reach out to them. You never know the difference it might make. Well, Felicia, Caitlyn and Amanda taught me a lot. But you know what? Watching the customers at Caddy’s over the years has also taught me a lot. You have people from all walks of life, all backgrounds, all socio-economic levels playing together, laughing together, eating and drinking together. You have Asian people, black people, white people, all people, having a good time together. It is really a picture of what the Kingdom of God is going to be like – a big party with all kinds of people from all over the world playing together and praising God. Caddy’s reminds me that “God is happiest when his children are at play.” G.K. Chesterton said that “God is the last child left in the universe.” He said the rest of us have just lost our joy. I have thought a lot about those words and I believe Chesterton was on to something. When we read Genesis we see that joy radiated through God as He created the universe. When God created you and me, there was great joy in His heart. This is why when C.S. Lewis was asked the question, “What is the greatest theological discovery you ever made he replied, “I exist to enjoy God’s enjoyment of me.” Did you hear that? God enjoys you! God wants you to enjoy him, to enjoy life, to enjoy the world he has created, and to enjoy the people he has put in your life. Do you know what Jesus first miracle was in John? It occurred in a small town called Cana at a wedding party. Now, a wedding party back then could go on for an entire week! Jesus was invited to this party. So, I want you to appreciate this. One of the first scenes of Jesus in John is not him teaching in the plains or holding a sick person’s hand; it is Jesus at a party! Well, after a few days they ran out of wine. What do you think Jesus did? Help clean up and say goodnight? No! He told some folks to fill several large jars with water and he performed his first miracle by turning all that water into wine. So, Jesus’ first miracle in John was not healing the sick, feeding the hungry, walking on water, or raising the dead. His first miracle was making 180 gallons of wine so a party could continue! Now don’t freak out. This doesn’t mean that Jesus gives us permission to go out and get drunk, crazy and careless. The point of the story is not alcohol. It is about extravagant joy – God came to us in Jesus so we would have joy and our joy would be full. You can read the story of Jesus turning the water into wine over and over again. You can send it to scholars and theologians trying to find some great theological point, but you will never find it. The great truth of that story is this: sometimes Jesus did things for fun! Jesus was showing us how to get our joy back and for our joy to be full. So go out to Caddy’s today! It’s beautiful at Sunset. Ask for Amanda, Felicia or Caitlyn. Enjoy God’s enjoyment of you. Make a new friend. Play. Enjoy the life God has given you! Enjoy the burgers. They are the best in town, believe me. I have had many of them! And to get you in the mood for Caddy’s I have brought something that might help. Let’s see how long you can keep these beach balls in the air! I bet this is the first time this is has happened in this sanctuary! God is happiest when his children are at play. Pasadena Community Church What I Learned at “Caddy’s on the Beach” Sunday, August 23, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Well as you can see I am preaching a unique message today. I want to talk to you about what I have learned going to my favorite restaurant and hangout – “Caddy’s on the Beach.” I have received a variety of responses to the prospect of today’s sermon. Some have said, “That’s cool! I love that place!” Others have said, “This should be interesting. I wonder what you are going to say about that.” And then, of course, I have heard, “Why would you preach about a bar and grille on the beach?” It’s a fair question. The truth is there are a few reasons why I am preaching this message and I will talk about them throughout this message today. But right off the bat I want to say that a big reason why I am preaching this message is that Christians and churches need to re-imagine and rethink how we engage the community and world. Church is not what we do one hour a week in this facility or the Bible study or the Sunday school class we attend. Those things are great and they nourish us but that is not when or how church happens. Church is what you and I do every day with our lives to reflect the love of Jesus Christ. The church is not a building or a worship service. It is us! We are the body of Christ. So church happens at the grocery store, during a play date, on the golf course, at a neighborhood birthday party and, yes, at our favorite restaurant! The spirit of Christ is certainly with us as we worship and study the Bible but the spirit of Christ is also out in our community around everyday people. And Christ calls us to join him in giving people hope and helping them to realize how much God loves them. In order to do that we have to take a good look at how we engage people in our everyday lives. We have to be mindful of our attitudes and behaviors when we give a server our order or we pick up our dry cleaning or when we interact with other parents at a soccer game. God’s love doesn’t wait on people. It lovingly pursues people and meets them where they are and where they live. And if we believe the love of God is in our hearts that love is going to pull us to lovingly engage people in the everyday world. Gone are the days when people assume faith and the church are relevant to them. For various reasons, many people in our culture have an aversion to faith and church. If we are going to ever convince them that God’s love is real and can change their lives we must be willing to connect with people on their turf and engage them, understand them, respect them, love them and have fun with them. People need to see that we as Christ followers are real, human, and have the same struggles as everyone else. They need to see that we don’t think we are better than anyone else. We simply believe we were created by love for love. We rely on God’s love and power to help us and we believe that God’s love can make people whole. If people can begin to see God’s love in us then we can start making a difference. But in order to do that we can’t just show up on Sunday and hope other people will wake up and say, “Maybe I will go to church.” That’s not going to cut it. We have to take God’s love with us into the world, to places like “Caddy’s on the Beach.” You know who gave us the best example of this? Jesus Christ. If Jesus did ministry in our context today he wouldn’t be hanging out in churches; he would be going to places like “Caddy’s on the Beach.” The Bible tells us so. The religious leaders were surprised at the places Jesus went and the people he hung out with. Take a look at what Jesus said to some religious leaders: “The Son of Man, on the other hand, feasts and drinks, and you say, 'He's a glutton and a ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org drunkard, and a friend of tax collectors and other sinners!'” –Luke 7:34 Basically, they accused Jesus of being a party animal! They thought Jesus was having too much of a good time. They thought God was not into fun, games, and play but Jesus proved them wrong. Jesus was filled with the love and joy of God and he wanted everyone to experience it. There was no place he would not go or person he would not hang out with in order to share God’s love. So inspired by the witness of Christ, I want to tell you what I have learned by going to a fun hang out in this community. I want to tell you my observations as I have enjoyed myself at “Caddy’s” over the last several years. For those of you who don’t know about “Caddy’s on the Beach,” it is a beach bar and grille located on Sunset Beach in Treasure Island. The reason it is called “Caddy’s” is that if you wish, a “caddy” will set out chairs and umbrellas for you on the beach and serve food and drinks as you bask in the sun. Of course, you can sit on picnic tables or you can sit inside the restaurant and listen to live music and dance as you enjoy great food. They also have a top deck above the restaurant where you can hang out and get a great view of the sunset. It’s a very laid back and friendly atmosphere. And the staff is a big part of that. And that leads me to what I want to share first about what I learned at Caddy’s. This week I went out to Caddy’s for sermon research! I know. It’s a tough job. The lengths I will go to serve you and the sacrifices I will make for sermons is remarkable, isn’t it? While I inhaled a delicious cheeseburger I had conversations with three employees I have connected with in prior trips to Caddy’s. Here is picture of them. The one on the very left is Felicia. She has worked at Caddy’s for six years. Next to Felicia, in the middle, is Felicia’s sister Caitlyn. She has worked at Caddy’s for five years. Both of them are servers. And on the very right is Amanda. Amanda’s dad used to own Caddy’s and she told me that his vision was that Caddy’s be a fun family friendly place to eat and enjoy the beach. Amanda has been a bartender at Caddy’s for over 12 years. All three of them told me that most employees have been working at Caddy’s for many years with very little turn over. They are one big family and they have one another’s back. I casually interviewed all three of them about Caddy’s and their experience working there. I asked them what their experience at Caddy’s has taught them about life and people. Felicia turned away from the register and said, “Everyone should work in the service industry for a week.” When I asked her why, she said, “Most people have no idea what we go through serving people.” I said, “Yeah, I have often said that you can tell a lot about people by how they treat the people who serve them.” She said, “That is so true! Some people are very nice and polite but some people treat us like slaves. We are not robots. We are people. Treat us like people. We are happy to serve you but treat us with respect.” It is true. You can tell a lot about people by how they treat those who serve them. You want to get to know people? Take them out to eat and watch how they interact with the servers. You will find out all you need to know. I think Felicia’s advice is great. We should experience working in the service industry and consider what it is like to serve others. More than that, we ought to be serving others on a regular basis. After all, Jesus called us to serve. He sat down and washed the disciples’ feet and told them to do the same for one another. He said the greatest in the kingdom are those who serve. So you could say that waiters and waitresses are celebrities in the kingdom of God. We, as Christians, should know this better than anyone else! So next time you are in a restaurant call your server by name. Be kind. Get to know them. And tip them well! Christians ought to be known for their generosity, not by their cheapness! I turned to Amanda and asked, “Well, being a bartender for 12 years at a place like Caddy’s must have taught you a lot about people. What have you learned?” She didn’t hesitate. She said, “Never judge a book by its cover.” I said, “Tell me more.” She replied, “Well, the truth is there is something about people being in their bathing suits at a bar that causes their true selves to come out. Millionaires and celebrities have sat at my bar. Rays players and other famous athletes have sat at my bar. And, you know, people will tell a bartender everything. We are like counselors. I get to see the real people behind the titles, prestige, money, judgments and assumptions.” Amanda told me that some people you think would be really nice and have it all together have the most miserable lives. And some people who have the reputation of being mean and hateful are very generous people who are misunderstood. Some of the wealthiest people have been the worst tippers and some of the most financially humble people have been the biggest tippers. Amanda said, “I have learned not to make assumptions about anyone. Don’t be so quick to judge. People will surprise you.” Amanda gives great advice. How often are we quick to judge people? We see people dressed in a certain way or look a certain way and we stereotype them or put them in a category. We make assumptions about their character. We are all guilty of it at one level or another. I remember being in Austin, Texas many years ago. It over the New Year’s holiday and I was there to spend a week with an old college buddy of mine. The first place he took me to was “La Lona Rosa” in downtown Austin. It was a bar and concert venue. He knew I loved the blues and especially Stevie Ray Vaughan and Double Trouble. Well, this was after Stevie Ray had passed away. However Double Trouble was still very much alive and they were playing that night at “La Lona Rosa” with an up and coming blues guitarist! I was thrilled! We were standing around talking, waiting for the opening band to come out and along came this really tall and skinny guy. He was all alone with a drink in his hand. He came up to me and asked me where we were from. I told him and I asked where he was from and we started a conversation. He was a nice guy. Very soft spoken. Well, the opening band came out and played and he kept talking to us to about music. I thought to myself, “Hope this guy is not going to do this all night, especially when Double Trouble gets on stage!” The opening band finished and this guy looked at his watch and said, “Well, it was really nice meeting you guys. I’m here a lot when I’m not in town. Maybe I’ll see you out here again. I gotta go!” I said, “You go to go? You will miss Double Trouble!” He said, “Well, I am half of the double in trouble. That’s why I have to go. We are up to play next. I’m Tommy Shannon, the bassist for Double Trouble.” I replied, “You mean to tell me I have been talking to Stevie Ray Vaughan’s wingman for the last 30 minutes? Why didn’t you tell me?” He said, Well, you never asked!” I made the assumption that celebrities aren’t that nice. They don’t just walk around and talk to average people like me. I was wrong. Never judge a book by its cover. The Bible talks about this in 1st Samuel. The Lord is talking to Samuel about seeking the next King of Israel. He sends him to Jesse because the Lord has chosen one of his sons to be King. Samuel went and he looked upon Eliab who was big and strong and he assumed that he was the one the Lord had chosen to be King. But look at what God says to Samuel in 1st Samuel 16:7: But the LORD said to Samuel, “Do not look on his appearance or on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him; for the LORD does not see as mortals see; they look on the outward appearance, but the LORD looks on the heart.” Then God called David, the youngest one of the bunch, and Samuel anointed him King. David was very young and was taking care of the sheep. He seemed to be the last one qualified to be King. Yet God saw his heart and what he could become. That’s who God is. He sees more than what others see. God looks at our hearts. He sees what we can be. Therefore we should never judge a book by its cover. God doesn’t do that to us, thankfully. We should not do that to others. Caitlyn added to the conversation and said, “There are a lot of lonely and hurting people who come here. They come here because it is a fun place with lots of people and music and it makes them feel better.” Caitlyn said that she knows people who will come in and buy drinks for a bunch of people they don’t know because they just want friendly people to hang out with and they think if they buy drinks for strangers they can buy friends for the evening. Caitlyn’s right. There are a lot of lonely and hurting people in the world who just want to be listened to and loved. I mentioned a couple of weeks ago that we live in what sociologists call the “Age of the Lonely Crowd.” It is true. There are many people in the midst of a great crowd who are lonely and hurting. They are in restaurants, in shopping malls, at school, and in the house next door to you. Jesus said. “I want to you to love one another as I have loved you.” You want to know the truth. It is not our words or insights that lonely and hurting people want most. It is simply our presence. I learn this over and over again as a minister. Most of the time people aren’t looking for words or insights from me, as if I had that much to offer. Most of the time people simply want my presence. Tony Campolo tells the story of going to a funeral to pay his respects to the family of acquaintance of his. By mistake he ended up in the wrong parlor. It held the body of an elderly man and his widow was the only person present. She seemed so lonely that Campolo decided to stay for the funeral. He even drove with her to the cemetery. At the end of the graveside service as he and the woman were driving away, Campolo finally 