When I or some other pastor brings a legal pad into the office to discuss your funeral with your family what will they say about you? What will really matter to them? Have you ever thought about that? What will matter to them will be how well you loved. Our lives will be measured by how well we loved. Love never fails! Everything else will cease. Everything else will be stilled. Everything else will pass away. These three remain: faith, hope and love and the greatest of these is love. Years ago a John Hopkin's professor gave a group of graduate students this assignment: Go to the slums. Take 200 boys, between the ages of 12 and 16, and investigate their background and environment. Then predict their chances for the future. The students, after consulting social statistics, talking to the boys, and compiling much data, concluded that 90 percent of the boys would spend some time in jail. Twenty-five years later another group of graduate students was given the job of testing the prediction. They went back to the same area. Some of the boys -by then men -were still there, a few had died, some had moved away, but they got in touch with 180 of the original 200. They found that only four of the group had ever been sent to jail. Why was it that these men, who had lived in a breeding place of crime, had such a surprisingly good record? The researchers were continually told: "Well, there was a teacher..." They pressed further, and found that in 75 percent of the cases it was the same woman. The researchers went to this teacher, now living in a home for retired teachers. How had she exerted this remarkable influence over that group of children? Could she give them any reason why these boys should have remembered her? "No," she said, "no I really couldn't." And then, thinking back over the years, she said musingly, more to herself than to her questioners: "I loved those boys...." (Bits and Pieces). God will measure our lives by how well we loved. So I have a challenge for you this week. I challenge each of you to do five acts of love this week. And I mean acts of sacrificial love, sacrificing time or something in your life for another. Can you do that? Do the math. This time of the year about 800 people will hear or read this message. At the end of the week this church will have done 4,000 acts of love in the name of Christ. Wow! We are called to be God’s agents of love in this world. That many acts of love will change lives. Christ showed us by his act of love on the cross that agape love is what changes lives. This is why we celebrate Communion on a regular basis, to remind us Jesus’ ultimate act of sacrificial love for us that redeemed us and for us to remember that it is our own expression of sacrificial love in the world that heals, changes and transforms. Amen. Pasadena Community Church How Will You Measure Your Life? By Who and How You Love Sunday, August 2, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Today we begin a three week series entitled, “How will you measure your life?” It’s pretty straight forward. The world tells us we should measure our lives by how much money we have, what cars we own, the achievements we have made, and the power and status we have attained. But, in the end, is this really how you want to measure your life? In the end is this really how you want to be remembered? This series is based on a great book by Clay Christiansen called How Will You Measure Your Life? Christensen is a Harvard Business professor who surprisingly tells his students that their lives should not be measured by their success and achievements in business. In the prologue of his book he explains why. Christiansen also went to Harvard and he explains his experience attending class reunions. He said at his fifth year reunion his fellow classmates seemed to be doing really well. They had high paying jobs and great marriages and families. They were polished and prosperous. Their lives seemed to be going well on every level. But by the tenth reunion he experienced something he never expected. Several of his successful classmates didn’t come back for the reunion. As he asked other classmates where they were, he discovered that although many of his classmates achieved life changing success and were making enormous amounts of money they were not happy and did not enjoy their lives. Many of them had unhappy marriages and some were already divorced. One classmate had not spoken to his children for years. Christiansen observed that although many of his classmates were professionally successful they were personally miserable and their lives were a mess. Things just got worse. He said at his twenty -fifth and thirtieth year reunions he found out that one of his classmates, Jeffrey Skilling, was sent to prison for his role in the Enron scandal. Christiansen knew him in school as a good, smart man who loved his family and had good values. But over time something went drastically wrong in his life. Something had sent him in the wrong direction. But Skilling wasn’t the only one. Many of his Rhodes Scholar classmates had also made a mess of their lives. One was arrested for insider training. Another ended up in jail for having a sexual relationship with a minor. Some of them were on their third and fourth marriages. Christiansen tells his students this story every year as a cautionary tale. “Do not measure your life by success, money and achievement. Those things are great and they have their place but they will never bring real meaning and satisfaction to your lives.” Maybe some of you feel like I am talking directly to you today. You have gotten the awards, success, money, notoriety, power, recognition, praise and glory. And yet you are still empty inside. There is a hole in you that cannot be filled. All the things you have done and achieved are really not how you want to measure your life. And you are in worship today because you know you need to change direction in your life. So how should we measure our lives? Well, the Bible is real clear about that. And in this series we are going to see how God wants us to measure our lives -By who and how we love, By what and how we give, By who and how we serve. We start with the most essential way God wants us to measure our lives – By whom and how ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org we love. Love is where our faith begins and ends. In the end our lives will be measured by how well we loved. But what exactly is love? How do we define it? Love is thrown around like a punch line in our culture. If you look up “love” in the dictionary you will find it is defined as having affection for someone or having romantic feelings. Well, the love God calls us to express is much deeper than that. There is no better place to understand this love than from one of the most known chapters in the entire Bible, 1st Corinthians 13. If I speak in the tongues of men or of angels, but do not have love, I am only a resounding gong or a clanging cymbal. If I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have a faith that can move mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing. 3 If I give all I possess to the poor and give over my body to hardship that I may boast, but do not have love, I gain nothing. Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. It does not dishonor others, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres. Love never fails. But where there are prophecies, they will cease; where there are tongues, they will be stilled; where there is knowledge, it will pass away. And now these three remain: faith, hope and love. But the greatest of -1st these is love. Corinthians 13:1-8, 13 The word love Paul uses here is seen about 540 times in the Bible. In the Old Testament it is the word, “hesed.” In the New Testament it is “agape.” Agape is self-giving love, a sacrificial love, an unconditional love – a love that works in the best interest of others regardless of how we may feel about them – a love that sacrifices for others regardless of what they have done to us. It is the word used to describe the unconditional love of God. Agape is love in action. It is an action word. That’s why Paul chooses to define this love through action words. What does this love look like? It is patient. It is kind. It is selfless. It is humble. It is forgiving. It rejoices in the truth. It always protects, trusts, hopes, and perseveres. In other words, true Christian love is not something you talk about or think about; it is something you do! “Love does.” Agape love is also a decision. It is not based on feelings. Although right feelings often come after we express this love, agape love is choosing to love regardless of how you may feel. When that guy cuts you off, you choose to be patient and not give him a particular kind of wave. When the waitress gets your order wrong, you choose to be kind, loving, and tip them well, regardless. When you see the homeless man, you choose not be judgmental or critical but see him with the eyes of Christ and recognize his worth. When you see the old couple walking slowly down the cereal aisle you choose to be patient and kind. Perhaps they just came from the doctor and received a bad pathology report. These are the few precious moments they have together. When five o’clock rolls around and you are tired and ready to go home, you stay a little longer to listen to a coworker who is upset. When people betray you, you choose not to retaliate but forgive because you know that is what Christ did for you. 1st John 4:16, 19-21 says, “God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God, and God in him….We love because he first loved us. If anyone says, ‘I love God,’ yet hates his brother, he is a liar. For anyone who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God, whom he has not seen. And he has given us this command: Whoever loves God must also love his brother.” Let me tell you church: Agape love will change the world – not politics, not education, not money, not technology. Agape love, Christian love, the love of God revealed in Jesus Christ is what will heal this word. This love is the acid test of being a follower of Jesus. The central thrust of Jesus’ teaching and ministry was that sacrificial love wins and forgiving enemies overthrows evil. If we don’t believe this we are just another charity organization. Let’s face it. Every other group in society can do everything else Christians do. Christians have programs. So does every other group. We recite creeds. So do many other groups like Rotary and Kiwanis. Christians sing songs. So does every other group from the National Anthem to 99 bottles of beer on the wall! Christians raise money. So does every other group. So what makes us different? What makes us unique? What do we as Christ followers do that is different from a non-profit organization? We love unconditionally! We forgive our enemies? We love sacrificially! We do not return evil for evil but choose to do good when evil is done to us. We do what is best for another regardless of who they are or what they have done. We see others not as the world sees them but as children of God who have sacred worth. Harold Warlick once said, “The greatness of our faith is our expansive loving spirit that overthrows resentments, takes in enemies, embraces rivals, and seeks the best for everyone.” Let’s bring this down to a personal level. On a general level agape love is fairly easy to take, but what about our personal relationships? Reverend James Moore recalls visiting a woman who was dying in a local hospital. She was in her mid-80's. Her son flew in to be with her. Moore was there when he arrived and entered the room. He walked over to the bedside of his dying mother, leaned over and kissed her on the cheek. He was so moved by her weak and vulnerable condition that he said to her: "Mom, you have been such a good mother to me. And, I want you to know I love you." The mother started to cry and through her tears she said: "Son, that's the first time you've ever told me. Last Friday was your 63rd birthday and that's the first time you ever told me." Moore comments by saying, “Isn't that something? It took him 63 years to say ‘I love you’ to his mother” (“A Mother’s Love”). Is there someone you need to express your love to today? Don’t wait! Do it now! If your parents are still living, when was the last time you told them you love and appreciate them? When was the last time you told your spouse, family and friends that you love them? When was the last time you told your children how proud you are of them? When was the last time you loved someone by spending time with them. Are you estranged from a loved one? Forgive them as Christ has forgiven you. Life is too short and Christ calls us to take the first step because that is what he did for all of us. Your forgiving love will bring healing to you and perhaps healing to the one you are forgiving. Agape love is powerful and transforming. People who don’t feel loved and nurtured don’t get very far in life. Studies have been done on infants. When infants are not hugged and nurtured, they have a greater chance of developing handicaps and illnesses as they grow. Leo Buscalgia is a writer and speaker who goes around the world and talks about one important subject: love. He says that when he finishes speaking there is usually a long line of people waiting to see him. Buscalgia says that most of them are not waiting in line to talk to him, but to receive a hug. He says he comes across so many people who tell him that they have not been hugged or touched in years. They walk away from this encounter new people! When we know we are loved, we can do anything, conquer anything, overcome anything! The Apostle Paul said it best in Romans 8: “We are more than conquerors through Christ who loves us.” Love wins! The love of God always wins. This is the essence of our faith and what the gospels teach us over and over again. Jesus sums it up by telling us that the world will know we are Christians by our love – not by the way we worship—not by our knowledge of the Bible—not by our sophisticated theology—not by our judgments—not by our denomination—but by our love for each other! In John 15 Jesus tells us that his purpose for us is that we bear much fruit. And what is that fruit supposed to be? My command is this: Love each other as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this: to lay down one’s life for one’s friends. –John 15:12-13 Now, most of us are not going to be called to die for another but all of us are called to love sacrificially. And this doesn’t mean just opening a door for someone. For most us it means sacrificing time – helping someone with a flat tire, baking cookies for a new neighbor, listening to someone when you would be rather be home watching television, throwing the ball with your kid when you would rather take a nap. In the end, those are the moments that count. Oh how we need to learn this lesson. I can’t tell you how many people I have visited and how many people who have crossed the threshold of my office door who wished they had lived their lives motivated by love. They talk about the times spent arguing about trivial matters. They talk of the energy spent resenting. They talk about the money wasted on needless things and the time wasted on a ridiculous pursuit. They wish they had learned the importance of love earlier. I have done many funerals in my ministry. You know what I have never heard at a funeral? I have never heard anyone mention how much money the deceased person had in their bank account when they died. No one has ever mentioned how many houses or boats they owned, or their golf handicap. You know what has been mentioned? The love they shared with others – the laughter and joy they shared with family and friends – the transforming moments. 