Not too long ago, Swift received a message from a 14 year old fan named Hannah. Hannah expressed to Swift how she was being bullied at school and how much it was affecting her. Swift could have just messaged back some sappy line or even quoted her song, “Haters gonna hate, hate, hate, hate, hate… Shake it off.” Instead, Taylor took the time out of her crazy schedule to write a long heartfelt message on Instagram to Hannah. Here is a portion of it: "Reading this made me so sad because I love seeing you in your videos and photos being so happy and wide eyed, like the world isn't as harsh and unfair as it actually is. I hate thinking about your pretty face covered in tears, but I know why you're crying because I've been in your place. This isn't a high school thing or an age thing. It's a people thing. A life thing. It doesn't stop. It doesn't end or change. "People cut other people down for entertainment, amusement, out of jealousy, because of something broken inside them. Or for no reason at all. It's just what they do, and you're a target because you live your life loudly and boldly. You're bright and joyful and so many people are cynical. They won't understand you and they won't understand me. "But the only way they win is if your tears turn to stone and make you bitter like them. Don't let them change you or stop you from singing or dancing around to your favorite song. "Every time someone picks on me, I'll think of you in the hopes that every time someone picks on you, you'll think of me… and how we have this thread that connects us. Keep walking in the sunlight. "Forever on your side, Taylor." Hannah was overwhelmed by this note and she said she would never forget it. Let me tell you something. That note that Taylor wrote was more important than all of her hit songs, success, money and achievements put together. And she knows it. That’s why she keeps doing it. Let me give you a quiz. I want you to try to answer these questions: 1. Name the five wealthiest people in the world. 2. Name the last five Heisman trophy winners. 3. Name the last five winners of the Miss America Contest. 4. Name ten people who have won the Nobel or Pulitzer Prize. 5. Name the last half dozen Academy Award winners for best actor and actress. 6. Name the last decade's worth of World Series winners. How did you do? None of us remember the headliners of yesterday. The applause dies. Awards tarnish. Achievements are forgotten. Accolades and certificates are buried with their owners. Here's another quiz. See how you do: 1. List a few teachers who aided your journey through school... 2. Name three friends who have helped you through a difficult time. 3. Name five people who have taught you something worthwhile. 4. Think of a few people who have made you feel appreciated and special. 5. Think of five people you enjoy spending time with. It’s easier to answer those questions isn’t it? What does that tell you? The people who make a difference in your life are NOT the ones with the most credentials, the most money, or the most awards. They are the ones who care. They are the ones who are faithful, who serve, who show unusual kindness and love. You really want to be a servant of Christ who makes a difference? Show unusual kindness every day. And don’t just be a Bible studier; Be a Bible doer! -J.D. Walt’s devotional, “Why the People We Want to Reach Probably Don’t Care About Our Awesome Sermon Series” was helpful to me as I prepared this message. Pasadena Community Church How Will You Measure Your Life? By Who and How You Serve Sunday, August 16, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Today we end our three part series entitled, “How will you measure your life?” It’s been pretty straight forward. The world tells us we should measure our lives by how much money we have, what cars we own, the achievements we have made, and the power and status we have attained. But, in the end, is this really how we should measure our lives? In the end, is this how we want to be remembered? This series is based on a great book by Clay Christiansen entitled How Will You Measure Your Life? Christensen is a Harvard Business professor who surprisingly tells his students that their lives should not be measured by their success and achievements in business. In the prologue Christiansen explains that as a Harvard alumnus he has learned through attending many class reunions and observing many of his classmates that success does not bring true happiness and meaning. Although many of his classmates have high paying jobs and are at the pinnacle of success they are personally miserable and their lives are a mess. So Christiansen warns his students not to make success the source of their happiness because it will never bring contentment and meaning to their lives. So what will bring contentment and meaning to our lives? How should we measure our lives? Well, the Bible is real clear about that. The first week we learned that God measures our lives by how well we love. Last week we learned that God measures our lives by how much of ourselves we give away. If you are loving you are giving. God’s love leads to generosity. Today we focus on serving. God measures our lives by who and how we serve. The love of God inside us leads us to serve, not to be served. Jesus said, “The greatest among you will be a servant.” Jesus also said of himself, “I came not to be served but to serve. I have given you an example that you should do as I have done for you.” It is clear. God measures our lives by how well we serve others. In the Kingdom of God servants are the celebrities. If we are serious about showing the world that God is love we will be serious about serving others. This is what translates in our culture today. People have grown tired of religious trappings and talk. The world doesn’t need another sermon; it needs servants. The world doesn’t need another religious platitude; it needs caring people. The world doesn’t need more Christians screaming in judgment; it needs people who will give a cup of cold water in Jesus’ name. The world doesn’t need more guilt laid upon it; it needs more people who will embody the love of Jesus. The world needs people who will rise above hate, cynicism, and complacency, and penetrate this hurting world with loving service and sacrifice. That’s when people will start wondering who Christians are and, more importantly who Jesus is. That’s when people will start asking us about Jesus and desire a relationship with him. People don’t respond to words; they respond to action. And serving is putting God’s love into action. I know someone who lives near a church and every time he walks his kids to school he checks out what the marquee of the church has to say. Usually it is a clever quote like “It’s hard to stumble when you are on your knees” or “Don’t give up. Moses was once a basket case.” But there was a span of about a month when the marquee advertised an upcoming sermon series. It invited folks to come to worship every Sunday in November and hear a life changing message on faith and family. As he walked his kids to school he thought, “Does this church think that I’ve been ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org waiting on just this moment when someone would solve my problems with a sermon series in November? I can’t imagine someone who doesn’t follow Jesus giving up their peaceful-easy-feeling Starbucks Sunday morning to go to a place where they didn’t know anyone because they saw a church sign about an awesome sermon series about faith and family in the month of November.” Well, as a preacher, that stung a little. I have a high view of preaching. I think it does make a difference. Otherwise I wouldn’t do it! But the guy had a point. Engaging sermons may attract some people but not everyone, especially those who have no interest in Christianity or have had bad experiences in churches. If people don’t follow Jesus and are happy with their lives why would they give up going to the beach, playing golf, or sleeping in and reading the Sunday paper to hear a sermon? So what will attract people to Jesus? What will make them stop and think about what Christianity is really all about? Quite often it is not a sermon; it is someone who is serving in Jesus’ name. When people see followers of Jesus serving they take notice because they are not all talk; they are all action. And that translates in our cynical culture today. So what does it really mean to serve Jesus? How do Christ followers serve? Jesus didn’t give us an instructional manual on how to serve. He simply gave us an example and a very powerful one. But what made it so powerful? And what has made Christian service so unique and powerful over the last 2,000 years? Well, I think there is one distinguishing characteristic of a servant of Christ that can help all of us be more effective at serving in Jesus’ name. It is a characteristic that will cause people to stop and take notice and want to know more about Jesus. In fact, through the years it has been this particular characteristic that has drawn people to Christ more than anything else. There is a text in scripture that expresses this distinguishing characteristic. It is found in the book of Acts. It appears in a powerful story of the Apostle Paul getting shipwrecked with 275 other prisoners. For 14 days Paul and the rest of the prisoners were on a ship headed to Rome. They were tossed about by terrible storms. They didn’t think they would survive. Eventually they got shipwrecked near the island of Malta. Paul and the rest of the prisoners jumped from the sinking ship and headed for land. 276 prisoners were tired and cold. They didn’t know what they were going to find when they got to the island. Much to their relief and delight, they were given a warm welcome. Take a look: Once safely on shore, we found out that the island was called Malta. The islanders showed us unusual kindness. They built a fire and welcomed us all because it was raining and cold. –Acts 28:1-2 Now that’s a powerful picture! Paul and the other 275 prisoners were exhausted and tired and cold. I am sure they half expected to be seen as invaders and attacked by the natives of Malta. Instead, they received a warm and kind welcome. The natives of Malta showed unusual kindness to them by having a warm fire and a friendly smile ready for them when they showed up on shore. Now, think about it. What if the 276 half dead people who washed up on shore saw a sign on the shore line that said “Join us each week in November because we will have a great fire each Sunday?” We probably wouldn’t be talking about it two thousand years later! And some think that is enough today. Just put up a sign about a sermon or program and they will come. No, that won’t cut it! Instead, we need to do what the natives of Malta did. Meet people at their point of need and show them “unusual kindness.” Unusual kindness. That’s it, you know. When Christ followers serve the distinguishing characteristic is unusual kindness. The distinguishing characteristic of Christian service is unusual kindness. You see, the church grew not through coercion, force or manipulation; it grew through fascination! Christ followers have always been unusually kind. That is what has caused people to stop and take notice. Unusual kindness is what Christ shared with the world and it is what Christ followers are to be known for. It is what our churches are to be known for. Because there are many cold, tired, and lonely people in the world who have experienced rejection, betrayal, crisis, and pain and they desperately need someone to show them unusual kindness. That’s what I want our church to be known for! And we are well on our way to doing that! I want people to say, “Oh you go to Pasadena! That’s the church that shows unusual kindness in our community. They don’t just put up a sign and say come worship with us. They don’t just have good programs and invite others to join. That church goes out into the neighborhoods, schools, communities and builds fires for those who are cold. They welcome those who have been rejected. They encourage the discouraged and nourish the hungry. I love that church. They are all about action!” You see, if we are going to really make a difference in this community for Christ it’s going to take “unusual kindness.” It’s going to take well built fires and the kind of welcome that doesn’t wait for the hurting and broken to come to us. Instead we must go to them. God’s love is not the kind of love that waits for people to come. It actually goes out in search of people who desperately need love. Our church is already doing this in powerful ways. In fact, just a couple of weeks ago I joined our hospitality ministry, “Love in Action” at Pinellas Hope. Pinellas Hope is a powerful ministry to the homeless. They create a community for the homeless and offer them ways to heal and get back on their feet. They also provide meals for them every day. Our church felt called by God to use our glorious kitchen for more than just feeding ourselves. We are using it to prepare delicious meals for the hungry. So a team of us went out there to serve a meal to 200 of the homeless in this community. Here are some pictures. And let me tell you folks, to the 200 homeless it was like we were serving a banquet from heaven. We served BBQ pork, mac n cheese, corn bread, vegetable salad, and cookies. They came through the line and their eyes got real big! Then they came back for seconds and for thirds! There was a touching moment. A man came running in to the kitchen and said, “I’ve got to know! Who made the mac n cheese?” And we pointed to Anita. He ran over to Anita, gave her a big hug and said, “That is the best mac n’ cheese I ever had in my life!” As Al Tompkins said, “That day we were the mac n’ cheese of Christ.” Later, I was speaking to one of the men living in the Pinellas Hope community. He said, “Thank you so much so much for coming. I have never seen us so happy to eat a meal. You have no idea. Today we felt like we were eating at the Ritz Carlton!” You want to know how much it costs us to feed such a delicious meal to 200 of the homeless at Pinellas Hope? $400 dollars. It only costs that much to show unusual kindness to those who are hungry and tired. I love what Bob Goff has to say about serving Christ in his book “Love Does.” He said the way he learned how to really serve Christ and show unusual kindness was by quitting Bible study. That’s right. He said he became a better Jesus follower when he quit Bible study. He said Bible study just didn’t do it for him. It was like studying about God instead of bonding with God and doing something with him. He said he would just forget what he learned in Bible study because he never did anything with it! So Goff said about 15 years ago he started to get together with a group of guys each week and instead of calling it a “Bible study” they called it a “Bible Doing.” At his Bible Doing they read what God has to say and then focus all their attention on what they are going to do about it. He says if you get engaged like that you will be able to remember Bible verses because you are living them instead of just reading them. Amen to that! Don’t get me wrong. I’m all for Bible studies. They are critically important. But what’s the point if we are not doing something about what the Bible says? I was convicted about this just this week as I was preparing this very sermon. I was in my study in the middle of what I thought was an important thought. And then my phone rang. It was an old friend of mine who is really struggling. And I thought, “I’ll call him back. I’ll just finish this thought and call him back later.” And then I sensed God saying to me, “Charley, what’s more important? Writing this sermon or being this sermon?” So I stopped everything and picked up the phone and we had a great conversation that he said really helped him. Listening to my friend was ten times more important that finishing some point for a sermon. Bible doing instead of Bible studying. I like that! What if we called all of our Bible studies and Sunday school classes Bible doings instead of Bible studies? What if everyone one of our groups had a Bible doing component to it. What if every group was required to ask, “Based on what we have learned this week what are we going to do about it? How are we going to show unusual kindness to the beaten, broken and bruised? How are we going to build a fire for those who are cold and tired? How are we going to be a source of light, warm and strength in a dark and cold world?” In the end that is what matters. I’ll tell you someone who gets this – Taylor Swift. Whether you like her music or you don’t, this young lady is grounded in her faith and does not let the spotlight blind her to what is most important in life. She uses her celebrity and resources to build great big fires for those who are cold and hurt in the world. She sends gifts to fans, shows up at hospitals to play with fans who are sick, donates to schools, crashes parties, pays for dinners, writes letters and visits fans who are depressed. 