Don’t just go through the motions. Let Let your light shine. It will transform you your light shine for all to see. Live God’s love and and the people around you. joy like you mean it! That light will overcome the So, let’s recite the Elf Code of Ethics darkness. It will lift the world up and cause people together: to fly. Madalene Le’Engle once said, “We draw > Live every day like Christmas people to Christ by reflecting a light that is so > There is room for everyone on the nice list beautiful and compelling that people want to know > The best way to spread Christmas cheer is with all their heart the source of that light.” to sing loud for all to hear I experienced this first hand in traffic the “Elf more, Grinch Less.” Be the light of other day. I was sitting at a light a bit frustrated at the world! Amen. the crazy drivers around me. To change my attitude I decided to turn on the radio and a great song was playing! Now, I wish I could tell you it was “Amazing Grace” or “Open the Eyes of My Heart Lord,” but it wasn’t. It was Van Halen’s “Jamie’s Crying.” And I started to really get into the song. I was bopping my head up and down, really into this. And then I turned to my right and saw this man about 60 years old in a Cadillac doing the same thing! He was bopping his head and singing the same song! I looked at him and motioned to the radio as if to say, “I’m listening to the same song!” I laughed and he laughed! The light turned green and we waved goodbye to each other like we were friends! Pasadena Community Church Christmas at the Movies LOVE: The Witness of “Elf” Sunday, December 21, 2014 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor 1st Scripture Lesson: Timothy 6:17 ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org Today we continue our Advent series “Christmas at the Movies.” We are taking a look at the real meaning of Christmas through some of our favorite Christmas movies. Many of us watch these movies over and over again every year because they inspire us. And when we look closer at these movies we find the real meaning of Christmas – which is the love that Christ comes to bring us. I actually conclude this series on Christmas Eve at the 11:00pm service with the movie “A Christmas Carol.” So join us for that! But today we are going to be taking a look at the movie “Elf.” Now I know many of you have been looking forward to us looking at the movie on Sunday morning. And some of you have just been strangely curious about it. “Really? He is really going to preach on that! What is he going to say?” Well, you are about to find out! Now how many of you have seen “Elf?” Believe it or not there is a powerful message in this movie. Let me give you the back story of it. The movie begins with a baby in an orphanage on Christmas Eve. Santa visits the orphanage to bring gifts and begins to eat the cookies and milk left for him. As Santa is enjoying the cookies the little baby crawls out of his crib and into Santa’s toy sack. Santa returns to the North Pole and celebrates with his elves on how successful Christmas was. As Santa is celebrating with the elves, lo and behold, something comes out of his toy sack! And it is this baby! Santa and the elves end up adopting the baby and name him “Buddy” because that is the brand of pampers he is wearing! Buddy grows up with the elves doing elf like duties, making toys and shoes and cookies. He is much bigger than the other elves and not as astute at elf like duties. One day he finds out he is not an elf. He is human and he goes on a quest to find his real dad. This is how the movie begins. Now, I thought a lot about how to organize this message today. And, truthfully, the outline of today’s message is contained in the movie itself. It is the Code of Ethics for the Elves. Let me show you the clip where Buddy and the elves learn their code of ethics: (Show code of ethics clip) Treat everyday like Christmas; There is room for everyone on the nice list; The best way to spread holiday cheer is to sing loud for all to hear. Believe it or not there are solid spiritual truths behind these Elf Code of Ethics. We are going to take a close look at each of them today. I want to begin with the second rule first: There is room for everyone on the nice list. This is where the movie really begins. Buddy’s real dad is on the naughty list. He is a burned out publisher of children’s books working in New York City. He is mean, insensitive and selfish. He is numb to life. But buddy makes a trip from the North Pole to New York City to find his dad. Buddy pursues his dad who is on the naughty list because he loves him and believes there is room for him on the nice list. So he makes the long journey and finds his dad working in the Empire State Building. I know someone who pursues us and will not stop until he finds us. I know someone who loves us no matter how bad we are and always makes room for us. His name is Jesus. Jesus pursues each one of us. In fact, a poet once called Christ “The Hound of Heaven” because he is relentless in his passionate pursuit of each of us. It doesn’t matter what we have done, he loves and pursues us and wants to live in our hearts. That is what we celebrate at Christmas. Love came down at Christmas. That’s right, God in Christ made the loving choice to pursue us so we would know how much he loves us and surrender to that love. Jesus said, “I came to seek and save the lost.” He came to seek those of us on the naughty list and those of us on the lonely list or the broken dream list or the discouraged list or the cynical list. He came to seek us and save us and love us and make us whole. I don’t know what list you are on today. But I know Jesus can find you and love you and make you whole. There is always room for anyone on the nice list. The love of Christ can transform anyone. Whoever you are, whatever you have done, open your heart to that love and Christ will transform you. And when you do that you discover the profound and powerful significance of the second rule of the elves: Treat every day like Christmas. And that means to engage life the way God intended for us to engage it – to live our lives with wonder, love, joy, and creativity – to treat every day as a gift from God because it is! The best illustration of this is Buddy himself in the movie! Now he treats every day like Christmas. I want to show you a clip that captures it well. This next clip shows Buddy experiencing New York City and the world outside the North Pole for the first time. Take a look: (Show clip of Buddy in New York City) Now Buddy knows how to enjoy life and treat every day like Christmas! His behavior reminds me of a story about a group of theologians and scholars who once cornered C.S. Lewis and asked him, “What is the most important theological discovery you have ever made?” Lewis smiled and responded, “I exist to enjoy God’s enjoyment of me.” Did you know that God enjoys you! God wants you to enjoy him, to enjoy life, to enjoy the world he has created, and to enjoy the people he has put in your life. He wants you to live every day like Christmas! Scripture backs up God’s call to enjoy life in 1st Timothy 6:17: “Command those who are rich in this present world not to be arrogant nor to put their hope in wealth, which is so uncertain, but to put their hope in God, who richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment.” You want to know one of the first things the ancient church taught those who were converting to Christianity? It is known as the “Short Catechism” and here it is: “What is the chief end of humankind? To glorify God and enjoy Him forever!” I come across so many people who won’t allow God into their lives because they think God is going to make them give up fun. Many misguided Christians have perpetuated this nonsense. They give off the impression that to become a Christian means the party is over – that being spiritual means being miserable. Nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, to become a Christian means the party is just beginning. We begin to see what joy really is! After all, God is the one who created fun! God created us to play and to enjoy the life he created! The Bible tells us so. In the tenth chapter of Mark we read that Jesus was teaching and a bunch of playful kids ran toward him. The sour disciples were appalled. You can imagine their reaction, “Children ought to be seen and not heard. Where are their parents? Can’t they see these kids are interrupting Jesus? Get these kids out of here!” The Bible says that Jesus became very angry at the disciples. He felt the kids were treated unfairly. He said, “What are you doing? Let the children come to me. Don’t get in their way. In fact, unless you can receive the Kingdom like these kids, you will never be able to enter it.” What did Jesus mean by this bold statement? Children are receptive, dependant and trusting. They bring nothing but themselves and their joy. Jesus said that unless we are able to receive God and his Kingdom like that we will never understand God and his Kingdom. G.K. Chesterton wrote something that I have never been able to forget. He wrote that “God is the last child left in the universe.” He said the rest of us have just lost our joy. I think he was right. I don’t know what you think about God but one of his biggest qualities is joyfulness. Imagine how much fun he had creating this world! You see, we forget this. We forget that we were created from joy to be joyful. This next clip reveals that. (Show clip of Buddy smiling) So often this is what we become. We become like that manager. We lose our joy. We forget how to play and have fun. Life gets busy. We make work more important. Our priorities get out of whack and we forget that in working so hard to make a living we have forgotten that God want us to live! Has work become your favorite? Has busyness and getting ahead and being successful become your favorite? Have you forgotten to enjoy the life God has given you? Have you forgotten to live life with wonder, playfulness, and creativity – those qualities that God gave you, that you knew as a child, but you have become numb to them over time. When was the last time you just smiled at someone? When was the last time you were so engaged joyfully with life that you forgot to check your cell phone or the time? I was at the hockey game the other night. I love cheering on the Lightning. Those games are so much fun! Well, I was able to sit right behind the boards! Right behind the glass! That’s the way to watch a hockey game! And, of course, when they fight I look down and say, “That’s terrible! That’s terrible!” No, “Come on!!!!” “Is that the pastor down there?” I got to know the family sitting next to me. It was a mother and father and their two teenage daughters. We were having a good time joking around and screaming for the Lightning. Then there came a moment when the players were tussling against the boards, right in front of us! It was awesome. But the guy next to me elbowed me and pointed at his daughters. What were they doing? They were texting on their cell phones, deeply immersed in a conversation! Right behind the glass in the middle of a hockey game! Isn’t that an illustration of how life gets sometimes? There is this great big world all around us that God has created and so often we get stuck by being preoccupied with trivial things. We forget to open our eyes and ears to God’s blessings all around us! There is reason why we call it recreation. RE – Creation – when we stop to enjoy the life God has given us it is life giving – we are recreating ourselves! And when we don’t take time to recreate ourselves we can become miserable, grumpy, mean, and bitter. We can get lost in our trivial pursuits that take our life away. Maybe your stress has sucked the life, love and joy right out of you. It is time to let yourself be loved by God and enjoy life. I think of it this way. When I was a little boy and would get grumpy and grouchy, my dad had a clever way of changing my mood. He would not lecture me. He wouldn’t tell me that I should be grateful for what I had and not complain. He would get on the floor with me and find a place just above my belly button and blow air bubbles on my tummy. He would do it until I smiled and gave into laughter. Quite simply, this is what God did for us in Jesus. God got down on our level and embraced us so that we might get joy back in our lives. You have homework to do. Go out and let yourself be loved. Go hack at a golf ball. Take dance lessons and learn how to dance. Turn on your favorite song and sing like no one is listening. Go watch your favorite comedy and laugh your way to joy! We have all seen the bumper sticker that says “Wag more, Bark less.” Well, today’s message is simple: “Elf More, Grinch Less.” You know the biggest regret people have when they die is not that they wish they had made more money, were more successful, powerful or famous. Their regret is about something they did not do – pursuing a dream, a hobby, or a relationship. What would you say if you had to finish this sentence: “If I had to live my life over, I would...”? Don’t wait! Treat every day like Christmas. This leads right in to the third rule for elves: The best way to spread Christmas cheer is singing loud for all to hear. When we experiencing the love of Christ and live life each day with love and joy and gratitude, we come to see how important our witness is to the rest of the world. I don’t need to tell you that so many people live in darkness and they desperately need the light of Christ to shine through us. Jesus said, “Neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead they put it on its stand, and it gives light to everyone in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others, that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven” (Matthew 5:15-16). John 1:5 says, The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. We are to let our light shine. God has called us to be the light of the world! Here is a clip from the movie of the change that happens when we choose to let our light shine: (Show clip of Buddy’s dad really singing) 