How can I do more?” You can start by giving your time and gifts to the church because PCC is living out the message of the Prophets and we want to do more. I know many of you are already serving but I also there are others who need a little nudge. PCC is actively involved in caring for God’s people! I dare say if every person who came to worship each week, which is an average about 1100 people, would commit to serving those in need in some way for an hour or two a week St. Pete would be a beacon of God’s hope and healing to the rest of the country. Do you talk to God like you used to? Do you still care about God? Do you care about his people? When was the last time you spoke with God and listened to him? When was the last time you listened to his heart through scripture and heard his cry for his people in need? You know so often we only think of justice and mercy and caring for the weak in terms of those who are hungry or have some physical need. But the message of the prophets is broader than that. We are called by God to defend and help anyone who is helpless, powerless, oppressed and abused. So I want to end my message by bringing it home to where most of us live every day. Think about the folks we see and interact with everyday who need defending, who need our protection, who need for us to speak up for them. I think about the people who serve us. You can tell a lot about people by how they treat those who serve them. You want to really get to know a person? Take them to a restaurant and watch how they interact with those who serve them. I want to share with you the testimony of someone who lived out the message of the Prophets in a powerful way. The following testimony is from Rev. Jim McWhinnie, my predecessor, who brought many gifts to this church: ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org At a local restaurant last night, three elderly gentlemen were sitting in the booth next to where my wife and I were seated. When the young waitress delivered their orders, apparently one of the orders was not prepared as how the man had requested. I do not know if it was or not, we arrived after they had ordered. Well, he blew up and tore into the server long and hard ... she offered, "Sir, I'm sorry I misunderstood. Let me take it back and get it right." But that did not suffice ... he went on and on berating this young waitress. The other two men simply remained silent. On and on he tore into her. And in the end, he kept the order, dismissing her with disdain. I was impressed with the young waitress' endurance of his rage. After she left, I stood up -to my wife's horror and faced the man. He shouted at me, "What are you looking at? Mind your own business!" I responded ... I thought calmly yet forthrightly ..."I am looking at a mean, old man who likes to beat up on young women ... and how you treated that young lady IS my business ... did you ever think she might be my daughter?" He started to rise but the other two men hushed him up. When we received our check, our waitress wrote on the check ..."Thank you for being a Dad when my friend needed one ... dinner is on all of us servers. Again, thank you." (Taken from his journal entry on Face Book, dated January 21st, 2015). If we care about God, we will care about God’s people. Amen. Pasadena Community Church JJJJJooooouuuuurrrrrnnnnneeeeey yyyyTTTTThhhhhrrrrrooooouuuuugggggh hhhhttttthhhhhe eeeeBBBBBiiiiibbbbbllllle eeee~ Prophets and Kings Sunday, February 8, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Micah 6:Today we continue our series “Journey through the Bible.” In this series we are taking an exciting and informative journey through scripture. Many of you want to learn more about the Bible and the story of the Bible and this series gives you the opportunity to do that. This series allows you to immerse yourself in the biblical story and learn how God speaks to us through scripture. My hope is that these messages inspire you to go home, read your Bible and be transformed by it. Today we conclude the Old Testament section of this series. We have covered a lot of territory in a short amount of time. I began with a whirlwind tour of the entire Old Testament in 30 minutes. We learned about the historical books of the Old Testament. These are the first 17 books that cover creation and the fall, Moses and the Exodus, the Hebrew people conquering the land of Canaan, the period of the Judges and the great Monarchy, the separation of the southern and northern kingdoms and their demise, and the eventual return of the Jews to the Promised Land. Then we took a closer look at three key figures in the Old Testament: Abraham, Moses and Joshua. We learned powerful lessons about them and their faithfulness to God. Last week we summarized the next collection of books in the Old Testament called the Wisdom Literature. We learned why these five books are called the heart and soul of the Bible. They document the spiritual wisdom the Jewish people learned throughout their history. We came to see how relevant that wisdom is for our lives today. Today we conclude the Old Testament side to this series by taking a closer look at the last collection of books in the Old Testament – The Prophetic Books, the last 17 books of the Old Testament. We are going to hear the message the prophets gave to the Kings of Israel and Judah and, as we do, we are going to see how relevant that message is for us today. The message of the Prophets is perhaps the most important message for us to hear today as Christians. But sadly, it is probably the most ignored message of the Bible. For the message of the Prophets reveals what breaks God’s heart. Now I imagine you are thinking, “Well, when you think about all the awful things going on in this world there must be a lot of things that break God’s heart.” And you would be right. But there is a common thread weaved throughout the Bible which reveals what is at the top of the list of things that break God’s heart and conversely what warms God’s heart. And I can’t think of a more critical time for us to hear the message of the Prophets than right now. It is difficult for us to hear this message, which is why Prophets then and prophets now are not very popular. And it also why the message of the Prophets is often ignored or overshadowed by other biblical messages. Think about it. Those of you who come to church a fair amount, I bet most of you can count on one hand the number of sermons you have heard based upon a Prophet. In fact, I will confess to you that over the years I have preached very few sermons on the Prophets. And shame on me for that. I had a professor in seminary who once told our class, “A quick way to exit a church as a pastor is to preach a steady diet of sermons on the Prophets.” Ouch! Why is that? Well because when you faithfully preach the message of the Prophets it is rather convicting. And when you convict people it doesn’t always make you very popular. When you preach the truth in love by lifting up what we do that breaks God’s heart you don’t win a lot of friends. In fact, when you take a closer look at the ministry of Jesus you see that Jesus was threatened and ultimately killed because he preached the message of the Prophets. And let me say a word to those of you here who don’t consider yourselves religious or Christian. Maybe you have come for just this series. Maybe a friend invited you to church. Whatever the case, you are always welcome here. I am willing to bet that if you have had difficulty with the church or Christians or have been turned off by the faith in some way, a big reason has to do with what got the Prophets so riled up! So you are in good company! It has been the church’s failure to hear and apply the message of the Prophets that has caused much of the disdain folks have of Christians and the church. Folks, don’t get me wrong. My intention today is not to discourage you. I love the church and believe it is God’s best hope for the world. The church is doing a lot of things right. And it is because I believe this that I feel led and compelled to lift up the message of the Prophets. Because I don’t want to break God’s heart and I know you don’t want to break God’s heart! I want to warm God’s heart and make him proud. And we can’t do that unless we hear and apply the message of the Prophets. So let’s take a closer look at the Prophets and their message to the Kings, to the people of God, and to us. What’s important to understand is that the Prophets emerged by the power of God to be the moral conscience of the Jewish people. And a big part of their job was to evaluate the work of the Kings. They challenged the status quo and spoke truth to power. And, as we all know, that can be a dangerous job. You will remember that the nation of Israel split into two kingdoms, Israel in the north and Judah in the south. These two Kingdoms for many years had kings who ruled over each of them. And if you look at the succession of kings in both of the kingdoms you quickly see that most of them were terrible kings. In fact, over and over you see that the Bible said this about most of them: “They did evil in the sight of the Lord.” A few kings in Judah were good, but most of them, according to the Prophets, “did evil in the sight of the Lord.” For example King Ahab was the seventh King of Israel who reigned somewhere in the middle of the 800’s B.C. He lived in an ivory palace with his wife Jezebel. They oppressed the poor among them and turned away from God by worshipping other gods. You see, when the Prophets evaluated the kings they simply asked two questions: Were they faithful to God and did they care for people? And, believe it or not, most of the kings failed miserably in those two areas. God’s message to them through the Prophets was simple: Repent and obey God and you will receive grace and forgiveness. Turn away from God and you will no longer be protected and your corruption will destroy your kingdom. Now, most of the kings didn’t start off corrupt. They started off feeling honored to serve the Lord as kings and take care of God’s people. So how did they go so far astray? How did these kings, knowing God was trusting them to be faithful, fail so miserably? What happened? Take a wild guess! The answer then is the same answer now. What happened to those kings also happens to leaders today. Wealth, power and vanity took hold of them and their greed and selfishness blinded them to the vision of who God. Absolute power corrupts absolutely. We see example after example of this today – from politicians to preachers – from corporate CEO’s to revered leaders of the church. Power is seductive and throughout history power has corrupted good people and damaged countless lives. The story of the Kings of Israel is the same story now. Their story is our story. Not much has changed. As the Bible says, “There is nothing new under the son.” And one thing we learn about those who want more power than they should have is that they usually get it by taking advantage of the weak, vulnerable, and helpless. So the Prophets were the moral conscience of the people of God. Their message was that there would be consequences for not caring for the weak and vulnerable. And this message is everywhere throughout the Prophets. You can’t get away from it. One of the most powerful passages concerning justice for the weak comes from Isaiah. Here Isaiah is condemning the city of Jerusalem for the way it has treated the weak (1:21-27): See how Jerusalem, once so faithful, has become a prostitute. Once the home of justice and righteousness, she is now filled with murderers. Once like pure silver, you have become like worthless slag. Once so pure, you are now like watered-down wine. Your leaders are rebels, the companions of thieves. All of them love bribes and demand payoffs, but they refuse to defend the cause of orphans or fight for the rights of widows. Notice that justice and righteousness are held together. To be righteous means to practice justice. And what did the Prophets mean by justice? They meant to “practice grace and mercy towards those who have no power to secure it for themselves” (Dennis Bratcher, “Social Ethics in the Prophets”). Biblical justice means to protect and defend those who are helpless and powerless, and widows and orphans were the most vulnerable and weak in their society. 150 years after Isaiah the prophet Jeremiah still saw the mistreatment of the powerless and defenseless people in society as one of the primary evidences of unrighteousness and sin. He had these hard words for Judah’s king, Jehoiakim (Jer 22:3, 13-17): This is what the LORD says: Be fair-minded and just. Do what is right! Help those who have been robbed; rescue them from their oppressors. Quit your evil deeds! Do not mistreat foreigners, orphans, and widows. Stop murdering the innocent! And the LORD says, “What sorrow awaits Jehoiakim, who builds his palace with forced labor. He builds injustice into its walls, for he makes his neighbors work for nothing. He does not pay them for their labor. He says, ‘I will build a magnificent palace with huge rooms and many windows. I will panel it throughout with fragrant cedar and paint it a lovely red.’ But a beautiful cedar palace does not make a great king! Your father, Josiah, also had plenty to eat and drink. But he was just and right in all his dealings. That is why God blessed him. He gave justice and help to the poor and needy, and everything went well for him.” Isn’t that what it means to know me?” says the LORD. “But you! You have eyes only for greed and dishonesty! You murder the innocent, oppress the poor, and reign ruthlessly.” I like how Dennis Bratcher explains this text: “In Hebrew to ‘know’ someone was a way to describe the most personal and intimate relationship between persons. Here, knowing God is equated with concrete social actions for the poor and needy. In fact, in these verses compassion and justice for the powerless is what defines the role of a king, not how great his buildings are” (“Social Ethics in the Prophets”). So being in relationship with God means taking care of the needy, the oppressed and defending those who are weak. So what breaks God’s heart? What brings God to tears? When we do not take care of the weak, hungry, needy and oppressed among us! The bottom line is that If We Care about God We Will Care about His People. Does that message sound familiar? Jesus would come and tell us that he came to rescue the oppressed. He came and told us that when we do something for the least among us it is like we are doing it to him. He told us that the greatest commandment was to love God and to love people as much as we love ourselves. If we care about God, we will care about his people, especially the weak and the vulnerable. And if we don’t then our relationship with God is called into question. That is an essential message from scripture. However, it is one we do not hear often enough. Growing up, the faith I was taught was primarily a personal one. I don’t mean that my family and church did not serve others. Indeed we did! But social ethics and the call of God in scripture to defend and help the weak was not emphasized very much. I learned a lot about a personal relationship with Jesus, personal salvation, and personal prayer. I learned a lot about worship, telling others about Jesus and everlasting life. And I am grateful I learned these things because they are critically important and very biblical. But as I grew in my faith and read more of the Bible I saw the message of the Prophets ringing through. My faith in God is not just about me! My faith is not just personal, it is social! I have a responsibility to take care of God’s people! If I love God, I cannot ignore the needs of those others. If I care about God, I will care about his people. If I don’t, it is seen as sin in God’s eyes. It breaks God’s heart because God has blessed me and blessed you to be a blessing. As good Protestants we believe we have been saved by grace. And we have! And thank God for that because without God’s grace we would all be in deep yogurt. But we have been saved by grace for something! And that something is to bring healing and wholeness to this world by the power of God. And the world needs it so bad. Let me give you some statistics. Did you know the world produces enough food to feed every person on earth? And yet the policies and power structures in this world leave millions without access to food, land, and water. Did you know there 805 million hungry people in the world? Did you know that every year 2.5 million children die from malnutrition? Did you know that over 49 million Americans do not have enough food to eat? (source: whyhunger.org). And now think of all the food that is thrown out at home, in restaurants and in grocery stores. In the US, there are 45.3 million people who are living in poverty, including 14.7 million children. The vast majority of farmers, those who grow, pick, and process our food, live in poverty and cannot afford to buy adequate healthy food. Half the world’s population live on less than $2.50 a day (source: whyhunger.org). Do you think the message of the Prophets is relevant to us today? Does our heart break for those who are broken? Compared to most of the world, most of us here are rich and covered in resources. How do we live when we have what we have and others are weak and vulnerable and lacking? How are we using our resources to help those in need, to care for God’s people? As Micah the prophet proclaimed: He has told you, O mortal, what is good; and what does the LORD require of you but to do justice, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God? –Micah 6:8 One of the things I love is that when I go out into the community I find out that people know PCC as a church that cares about those in need. We have so many ministries that serve those in need in our community (Pack a Sack, Food Pantry, Assistance Programs, Scholarships, and ESOL to name a few). But we could be doing so much more! Some of you know that we have a church kitchen that is the envy of restaurants, hotels and chefs. It’s the Ritz Carlton of church kitchens. And we use it to cook meals for various events and programs. However, we could be doing so much more with it! A couple of weeks ago I had a wonderful conversation with Anita Marshall and Debbie Breitweiser, who head up our hospitality ministry and they shared something from their hearts about our kitchen. They told me they want to start using our wonderful kitchen to make meals for those in need in the community. They want to prepare meals and disperse them to other ministries and nonprofits who serve those in need. They wanted my blessing. I told them it was a no brainer! I was thrilled! So right now our hospitality team is taking time to plan a ministry that utilizes our kitchen to care for more of God’s people! So, you may be asking, “How do I get involved? 