with this wonderful book that is a favorite for so many of us. Psalms is really the heart and soul of the heart and soul of the Bible. It answers the question “How Do I Cope with Difficulty?” There are 150 Psalms covering the spiritual journeys and history of the Jews. They are broken up into five books representing the Torah, the first five books of the Bible. The Psalms was a hymnbook for the Jews. They read it and sang from it as they worshipped. But what is powerful about the Psalms is that if you look deeper you see that the Psalms reflect the cycles of life. The Old Testament scholar Walter Brueggemann was the first one to recognize this profound aspect of the Psalms. In the beginning of the Psalms you see expressions about the blessings of life and how wonderful life is. It feels good to praise God. We see this in Psalm 8: LORD, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth! You have set your glory in the heavens. Through the praise of children and infants you have established a stronghold against your enemies, to silence the foe and the avenger. When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have set in place, what is mankind that you are mindful of them, human beings that you care for them? 5 You have made them a little lower than the angels and crowned them with glory and honor. Life is good! But then life happens, right? We make mistakes or turn away from God and hurt ourselves or someone else makes a mistake and we suffer. Or the unfairness of life hits us. And the Psalms also reflect and give voice to those difficult times in our lives when we are hurt and angry with God. We feel this in Psalm 22:1-2: My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me, so far from my cries of anguish? My God, I cry out by day, but you do not answer, by night, but I find no rest. ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org The Psalms give us permission to question God and complain and get angry with God. It’s okay! God can handle it! When we are in a relationship with God, he wants all of us, including our anger and pain! But then the Psalms also reflect those times when we realize our only hope is God and that he has been faithful in the past and we can trust him. We remember all the good things he has done. We see this in Psalm 13:5-6: But I trust in your unfailing love; my heart rejoices in your salvation. I will sing the LORD’s praise, for he has been good to me. And then of course the Psalms reveal those glorious times when we come out of the valley – when the suffering is over – when forgiveness comes – when the burden has been lifted and we feel alive again in God. Psalm 66 expresses this well: Come and hear, all you who fear God; let me tell you what he has done for me. I cried out to him with my mouth; his praise was on my tongue. If I had cherished sin in my heart, the Lord would not have listened; but God has surely listened and has heard my prayer. Praise be to God, who has not rejected my prayer or withheld his love from me! We remember that God is so good and faithful. We remember that in difficulty and put our trust in God. He will see us through. So do you think the Bible is relevant to your life? Do you think it has something to say to you today? I believe it does. It certainly has many things to say to me. In fact, I will tell you a secret I’ve never told. I often repeat a Psalm to myself whenever I’m afraid or tempted or sad. It is Psalm 118:14: The LORD is my strength and my song; he has given me victory. And this I know for the Bible tells me so. Amen. -The Interpreter’s Bible Commentary, The Psalms and the Life of Faith by Walter Brueggemann, and Adam Hamilton’s message on the Wisdom Literature were helpful resources for me as I prepared this sermon. Pasadena Community Church JJJJJooooouuuuurrrrrnnnnneeeeey yyyyTTTTThhhhhrrrrrooooouuuuugggggh hhhhttttthhhhhe eeeeBBBBBiiiiibbbbbllllle eeee~ The Wisdom Literature Sunday, February 1, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Today we continue our series “Journey through the Bible.” In this series we are taking an exciting and informative journey through scripture. Many of you want to learn more about the Bible and the story of the Bible and this series gives you the opportunity to do that. Sometimes the church forgets to tell the story of scripture and this series allows you to immerse yourself in the biblical story and learn how God speaks to us through scripture. My hope is that these messages inspire you to go home, read your Bible and be transformed by it. Up to this point we have focused on the historical books of the Old Testament. These are the first 17 books that cover creation and the fall, Moses and the Exodus, the Hebrew people conquering the land of Canaan, the period of the Judges and the great Monarchy, the separation of the southern and northern kingdoms and their demise, and the eventual return of the Jews to the Promised Land. To learn more check out the first message of the series, “The OT in 30 Minutes.” Now we get to the heart and soul of the Bible – what is known as the Wisdom Literature. These are the five books of poetry that capture the phases of spiritual journeys that help us learn more about God and ourselves. They tell of the spiritual wisdom the Jews learned throughout their history and that wisdom is very relevant for us today. These books help us understand why we do what we do and the meaning of what we do. They articulate and give voice to all of our spiritual and emotional yearnings and what those yearnings teach us. In fact, the Wisdom Literature reveals just how relevant the Bible is to our lives. If we take time to read it, we will find the Bible is a very relevant book. I think the issue of relevancy is what prevents a lot of folks from reading the Bible. A lot of people think the Bible is filled with good ancient stories and proverbs but it really cannot speak to where and how we live in modern day. Perhaps that is how some of you feel today. You have a Bible at home. Maybe you’ve had it in your family for years. Maybe you got it as a gift from your grandparents for graduation years ago. Maybe your name is engraved on it! But, honestly, you haven’t read much of it on your own because you just don’t think it will speak to your life. Or maybe you’re someone who has had read a lot of the Bible but quite often you have a difficult time interpreting what it really means to you. You start reading it and it just doesn’t make any sense. You want to grow in your faith by reading the Bible more but it is difficult for you. I believe this message today will help all of us see how relevant, encouraging and inspiring the Bible is to our lives and how God can speak to us through it. Because, believe or not the Wisdom Literature addresses five of some of the biggest questions people have about life and God. It addresses other questions, but these are the questions I want to focus on today. Have you ever asked these questions before: -Why Does God Allow Suffering? -How Does God Want Me to Live My Life? -What is the Meaning of Life? -How Does God Feel About Sex? -How Do I Cope with Difficulty? You may have never realized this but the Wisdom Literature of the Bible addresses those five questions. Does the Bible sound more relevant to you now? I bet it does! So let’s dive right in and see what the Bible says about those five questions! We begin with a question that most of us have asked at one time or another. We often ask it when we are suffering – Why Does God Allow Suffering? The first book of Wisdom Literature is about that very question. It is the book of Job. Job is a poetic book that addresses a flawed belief about suffering, a belief that is still very popular today: If your life is good and everything is going well that means you are being good and God likes you. If life stinks and you are suffering that means you did something bad and you are not God’s favorite person. The book of Job corrects this flawed and harmful theological belief. Job is a story of a righteous man who suffered, and he suffered terribly. His crops and flock died. His servants died. His children died. And he got painful boils all over his body. So what did Job’s wife do? She told Job to just curse God and die? “You have been faithful to God. You have been righteous. And yet God allows this to happen to you! Just curse God and die! There is no reason for you to go on living!” Job replied, “Thanks, sweetheart! I appreciate the encouragement!” If that’s not bad enough, Job’s friends began to drop by Job’s place to try to comfort him. But after all the condolences were offered they said, “Come on Job, fess up. There is only one explanation for why your life is a mess. You did something that really made God mad. What was it? Why don’t you just repent and your life will get better?” Job replied, “I didn’t do anything wrong! I’m not going to repent. I am righteous. I am going to trust God in the midst of my suffering even when I don’t have the answers and even if I don’t understand.” Eventually Job began to question God about his suffering. He was righteous. Why did he suffer? Have you ever asked that question? I’ve been good. I’ve done all the right things. Why did this happen to me? God’s answer to Job and to us is found in Job 38:4-5: “Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? Tell me, if you have understanding. Who determined its measurements -surely you know!” In other words, the question of suffering is beyond our scope. We cannot comprehend how God created the world. How can we comprehend the complexities of suffering in this world? So God never really gives an answer that we like. All God asks us of Job and us is that we trust him to walk us through the difficult times. Life is unfair sometimes. Life is painful sometimes. We don’t have all the answers. But if we hold on to God he will see us through and redeem our suffering. And that’s what happened to Job. He never gave up on God and God saw him through it and he ended up being blessed. Look how Job expressed his faith in the midst of suffering: “I know that my redeemer lives, and that in the end he will stand on the earth. And after my skin has been destroyed, yet in my flesh I will see God; I myself will see him with my own eyes—I, and not another. How my heart yearns within me!” –Job 19:25-27 We don’t know why God allows suffering. We don’t have all the answers. Freedom is only a partial answer. But we know, as Job knew, that God will see us through our suffering and will redeem it when we keep our trust in him. With God, the worst thing is never the last thing. Another book of Wisdom Literature addresses this important question: How Does God Want Me to Live My Life? Have you ever asked that? Have you ever wondered that? How does God want me to navigate my life? How do I make good decisions? Well the book of Proverbs addresses that question in a profound way. Proverbs is a book of pithy sayings that are attributed to Solomon who wrote them in the middle of his life. Solomon has grown up. He is no longer a young buck. He has learned a thing or two about life and how it works and he wants to share his wisdom. And what we learn from Solomon is that there is a big difference between knowledge and wisdom. What is that difference? It has been said that “Knowledge is knowing that a tomato is a fruit; wisdom is not putting it in a fruit salad!” In other words, knowledge is knowing the truth. Wisdom is knowing how to apply it. If we are smart we will apply the wisdom of Proverbs early and often! The book of Proverbs helps us navigate through life by applying God’s truth. It explains the life God intends for us to live. It gives us Godly principles that, if we follow, will bring about life the way God intended. Now there are exceptions in life, as we just learned from Job. But, as a general rule, most of the time, if we follow the wisdom of Proverbs life will work and we will be blessed. Here is a passage from Proverbs that can stand on its own as a good summary of this wise book: Let love and faithfulness never leave you; bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart. Then you will win favor and a good name in the sight of God and humankind. Trust in the LORD with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding; in all your ways submit to him, and he will make your paths straight. Do not be wise in your own eyes; respect the LORD and shun evil. This will bring health to your body and nourishment to your bones. Honor the LORD with your wealth, with the first fruits of all your crops; then your barns will be filled to overflowing, and your vats will brim over with new wine. My son, do not despise the LORD’s discipline, and do not resent his rebuke, because the LORD disciplines those he loves, as a father the son he delights in.– Proverbs 3:3-12 The next book of Wisdom Literature is the book of Ecclesiastes. Besides being the biblical book that Kevin Bacon quoted in “Footloose” to convince the stuffy preacher to allow a high school dance in his conservative town, it is a book that goes much deeper than telling us “there is a time to dance”! It answers the common question, “What Is The Meaning of Life?” Ecclesiastes is also attributed to Solomon, except this time Solomon is writing at the very end of his life. He is an old man reflecting on his long life and what he has learned. He realizes life has not been so simple and neat all the time. Life is not always black and white. As we read through Ecclesiastes, we see that Solomon came to see that sometimes we can’t figure life out, but we can still trust God even though we don’t understand. In other words, at the end of his life Solomon came to recognize the importance of mystery. We see this wisdom in key figures like Billy Graham. Over the years, he has become less and less black and white about every issue of faith. He is more broad minded in his twilight years. James Fowler, a brilliant scholar of faith development, said that the fifth and final stage of spiritual growth is being able to enjoy and appreciate paradox and mystery. At this stage trust and doubt can live together. We can trust God even thought we have doubts and questions and don’t understand everything. We eventually learn that life and faith is not always about what we know but what we don’t know. I have learned this in my own life. The older I get and the more I grow in my faith the bigger God gets and the more open I am to discovering and experiencing the depth and mystery of God. If God were small enough to contain and figure out he would not be big enough to believe in. But at the end of his life Solomon was certain about a few things. He was certain that life is seasonal. Growth comes in stages. He reflected on this truth in the most well known passage of the book: There is a time for everything, and a season for every activity under the heavens: a time to be born and a time to die, a time to plant and a time to uproot, a time to kill and a time to heal, a time to tear down and a time to build, a time to weep and a time to laugh, a time to mourn and a time to dance, a time to scatter stones and a time to gather them, a time to embrace and a time to refrain from embracing, a time to search and a time to give up, a time to keep and a time to throw away, a time to tear and a time to mend, a time to be silent and a time to speak, a time to love and a time to hate, a time for war and a time for peace. –Ecclesiastes 3:1-8 Old Solomon also learned that most of what we think is important in life is empty and meaningless. “Vanity, vanity, all is vanity.” What does that mean? All of life is empty and meaningless. For example, if Solomon were preaching to you today he would say, “Enjoy the big game today but just remember that in a hundred years no one is going to remember or care who won the Super Bowl in 2015.” For Solomon, success, things, money, power and fame never satisfy. I like how he put it in Ecclesiastes 5:10: “Whoever loves money never has enough; whoever loves wealth is never satisfied with their income. This too is meaningless.” And so for Solomon what did have meaning? What really matters in life? What is the meaning of life? He tells us plainly in Ecclesiastes 12:13-14: Here is the conclusion of the matter: Respect and obey God! This is what life is all about. God will judge everything we do, even what is done in secret, whether good or bad. In the end, all that matters is our relationship with God and what we have done for God. That’s the meaning of life – “to glorify God and enjoy him forever!” Well, we come to the next question and book. And I think God had a smile on his face when he included this book in the Bible. It is the Song of Solomon and it answers the question “How Does God Feel About Sex?” I think God included this book because many people of faith have a tendency to get uptight about sex. The Jews were unsure whether to include Song of Solomon in their scriptures. And over the years Christians have mistakenly tried to explain it away as a metaphor for divine love. But the truth is Song of Solomon is a poetic letter Solomon wrote when he was a young man filled with passion and love for a woman he was about to marry. He was madly in love with her and you can see it expressed in the book. He describes his desire to kiss her and his longing to touch her. I want to keep this service G rated so I will not lift up those passages in worship today. But I bet I know which book of the Bible some of you will be reading when you get home today! I may get calls – “Charley, I can’t believe it! My husband is actually reading the Bible!” Song of Solomon teaches us that God sees sex as wonderful. After all it was his idea, not Madonna’s! It is a life giving gift as long as we enjoy it the way God intended. Finally we get to the book of Psalms. It does not come last in the collection, but I wanted to end 