Revelation is interpreted in many different ways but regardless of your interpretation Revelation teaches us that God has the Last Word! The opening chapters are important to understanding this unique book. They tell of seven churches in Asia Minor (modern-day Turkey) who had compromised their faith or were in danger of compromising their faith. The Lord’s message to them was simple: God would ultimately triumph over the Roman Empire and every other empire. God would have the last word. Those followers who remained faithful to God would triumph over evil and find life in this life and the life to come. In other words, those of us who rely on God as our strength know the worst thing is never the last thing. Revelation 21 expresses it eloquently: Then I saw “a new heaven and a new earth,” for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea. I saw the Holy City, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride beautifully dressed for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, “Look! God’s dwelling place is now among the people, and he will dwell with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. ‘He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death’ or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away.” –Revelation 21:1-4 Well, there you have it – the New Testament in about 30 minutes. The gospels reveal Jesus showing us the heart and character of God. The Acts of the Apostles teach us that the church is God’s best hope for the world. The Epistles teach us that each of us plays a key role in the church. And the book of Revelation teaches us that God has the last word. Amen. ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org Pasadena Community Church JJJJJooooouuuuurrrrrnnnnneeeeey yyyyTTTTThhhhhrrrrrooooouuuuugggggh hhhhttttthhhhhe eeeeBBBBBiiiiibbbbbllllle eeee~ The New Testament in 30 Minutes Sunday, February 22, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Today we begin the second half of our series, “Journey Through the Bible” by turning our attention to the New Testament. Two weeks ago we finished our tour through the Old Testament and I hope it gave you an appreciation for the Old Testament and how God speaks to us through the history of the Jewish people. What you are going to see in the new few weeks is how rooted the New Testament is in the Old Testament. You often hear people say, “Well, the Old Testament really doesn’t matter. We have the New Testament and Jesus now and the Old Testament really doesn’t apply.” Well, that is untrue. We as Christians believe that the Old Testament and New Testament are grafted together. The New Testament grew out of the Old Testament. Having said that, today I am going to tell you about the group of books in the Bible which point to and get their inspiration from the most influential person in the history of the world. More songs have been written about this person, more artwork has been created of him and more books have been written about him than any other person who ever lived. In fact, this person had such an influence on history that we measure time by him. Our calendar is divided into the years before and after his birth – BC and AD. I am talking about Jesus Christ. As we take an exciting journey through the New Testament today and the next few weeks you are going to experience why Jesus was the most influential person in history. And you are also going to see why he was more than an historical figure – but a person who has transformed countless lives and can change your life too. Because the four sections of the New Testament express the world changing impact of Jesus Christ and we are going to break those down today. There are approximately 23,145 verses in the Protestant Old Testament, and 7,958 verses in the New Testament. This means that the Old Testament makes up three-fourths of the Bible, and the New Testament one-fourth. Oh, but what a one-fourth it is! If you want to learn more about how the New Testament came together, check out my message “Making the Cut.” But right now I want to lift up the four sections of the New Testament and what they teach us about Jesus Christ. Of course, the New Testament begins with the four gospels. And the gospels show us Jesus Revealing the Heart and Character of God. Have you ever wondered what God is really like? Have you ever wondered about God’s nature and what he wants with us? Then look no further than the Gospels. A lot of folks make assumptions about God – he is angry, he is distant, he is a divine policeman. Well, before you make up your mind let’s take a look at what God actually said and did when he was in human form and walked this earth. The Gospels tell the story of the birth, life, teachings, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. And the gospel writers had one purpose in writing – to show us that God loves the world so much that he took human form in Jesus Christ to show us what he is like, to teach us how to live, and to go all the way to the cross to redeem us and give us new life. These gospel writers believed that Jesus over powered death and sin and by trusting him and following him we can find life, joy, peace, hope, wholeness and purpose. The Gospels show us that we don’t have to search for God, but God has come searching for us in Christ to give us new life. So, if you want to know what God is like, just start reading the gospels and watch what Jesus says and does. The gospel of John puts it this way in John 1:14: “And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us.” The “Word” in Greek is Logos. Logos means the mind, essence and creative energy of God. So, what this verse communicates is that Jesus is the mind, essence and creative energy of God in human form! Why would God go to such trouble? Jesus said that he “came to seek and save the lost.” Are you lost today? Have you made so many wrong turns in your life that you don’t who you are or where you should go? Are you afraid of where you are going and where you might end up? Well the good news of Christ, and (gospel means “good news”) is that Jesus can find you. In fact, he has never lost you. He has always had his loving eyes on you. There is a passage in the gospel of Luke that is a powerful illustration of Jesus finding the lost: Jesus entered Jericho and was passing through. A man was there by the name of Zacchaeus; he was a chief tax collector and was wealthy. He wanted to see who Jesus was, but because he was short he could not see over the crowd. 4 So he ran ahead and climbed a sycamore-fig tree to see him, since Jesus was coming that way. When Jesus reached the spot, he looked up and said to him, “Zacchaeus, come down immediately. I must stay at your house today.” So he came down at once and welcomed him gladly. All the people saw this and began to mutter, “He has gone to be the guest of a sinner.” But Zacchaeus stood up and said to the Lord, “Look, Lord! Here and now I give half of my possessions to the poor, and if I have cheated anybody out of anything, I will pay back four times the amount.” Jesus said to him, “Today salvation has come to this house, because this man, too, is a son of Abraham. 10 For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost.” –Luke 19:1-9 Notice that Jesus knew exactly where Zacchaeus was. Zacchaeus didn’t go to Jesus. Jesus came to him. Jesus knew Zacchaeus needed him. He knew he was lost. Wherever you are today I want you to know that Jesus knows where you are and he wants to come and live in the home of your heart. And it doesn’t matter what you have done Jesus can find you and make you whole. He can find you and forgive you. He can find you and redeem you. When we make the decision to follow Jesus and live our lives inspired and empowered by him, he expects us to do one thing, the one thing he taught and demonstrated so well – live a life of love. It is the life of love empowered by Christ that will transform this world. What is this life of love? Jesus told us plainly in Matthew: Hearing that Jesus had silenced the Sadducees, the Pharisees got together. One of them, an expert in the law, tested him with this question: “Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the Law?” Jesus replied: “‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.’ 38 This is the first and greatest commandment. And the second is like it: ‘Love your neighbor as yourself.’ All the Law and the Prophets hang on these two commandments.” –Matthew 22:35-40 In each of the gospels, Jesus reveals the heart and character of God. So what can we surmise about God based upon Jesus as seen in the gospels? Jesus demonstrates: God’s frustration with religious hypocrisy, God’s compassion for those who are poor and oppressed, God’s mercy toward those who sin, and God’s healing power for those who are broken. Based on who Jesus is what are we called to do? Jesus calls human beings into right relationship with God. Jesus commands us to love God and neighbor, and insists that this love includes compassion for the hungry and forgiveness for those who sin against us. Jesus demands that we apply this love to our enemies. What’s great about what we read about Jesus in the gospels is that he didn’t just walk the walk. He talked the talked. He went all the way to the cross to demonstrate God’s relentless love and grace for humankind. In fact, as he was suffering on the cross, he forgave those who were torturing him! After Jesus died the great love and power of God resurrected Jesus from the dead. Jesus’ resurrection demonstrated God’s triumph over sin, evil, hopelessness, despair, and death. And when we put our trust in Christ, the same power that raised him from the dead will live in us and give us new life now and life everlasting. After his resurrection, Jesus sent his disciples into the world to announce his power and love and to lead a revolution that would change the world. And he calls those of us who follow him to do the same. This call is found in Matthew 28:16-20, and it is called the Great Commission: Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go. When they saw him, they worshiped him; but some doubted. Then Jesus came to them and said, “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age.” That is the gospel story. It is contained in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. We will take a closer look at them next week and see how each of the gospels tell the gospel story in their own unique way. The next section of the New Testament is the Acts of the Apostles. Acts is the second part to the gospel of Luke. Acts begins where the gospels end. Following the resurrection and ascension of Christ, the early Christians were filled with the Holy Spirit and, through the Spirit’s influence and power, continued the ministry of Jesus, healing the sick, casting out demons, and teaching and preaching about Christ and the kingdom he had announced. In other words the book of Acts tells us the story of the birthday of the church, it’s powerful beginning and how the Holy Spirit empowered the church to change the world with the gospel. Acts teaches us that The Church is God’s Best Hope for the World. Listen to how God’s chosen vessel got its start: When the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place. 2 Suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting. 3 They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated and came to rest on each of them. 4 All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit… Peter said, “Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. 39 The promise is for you and your children and for all who are far off—for all whom the Lord our God will call.”….41 Those who accepted his message were baptized, and about three thousand were added to their number that day. 42 They devoted themselves to the apostles’ teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayer. 43 Everyone was filled with awe at the many wonders and signs performed by the apostles. 44 All the believers were together and had everything in common. 45 They sold property and possessions to give to anyone who had need. 46 Every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts, 47 praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people. And the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved. –Acts 2 When we read Acts and see the power of the early church and what God has called the church to do we come to the realization that Pasadena Community Church is not a charity organization or an event center or a concert hall or a recreational center. We are the body of Christ! We are God’s chosen vessel in the world! God has chosen the church to be his change agent in the world. When we pray and are faithful God can do extraordinary things! If you study church history you see the impact God has made on the world through the church – in education, in health care, in social justice, in poverty, in the healing of the world! The church is not perfect, but the church is still the greatest things God has going for him in this world and if God is going to do something significant he is going to do it through his church. The gospel is not something that just floats around on its own. It is rooted, sustained, supported and organized by the church through the power of Holy Spirit. What other institution in the world can do what church does? The church is God’s best hope for the world. The church is infinitely stronger than most people understand. It can withstand anything the world throws at it because it is sustained and empowered by God! The church thrives and provides love, affirmation and community to the left out, down and out, thrown out and the bruised, broken, and beaten. It changes lives with the gospel of Jesus Christ! After Acts, we find the Epistles or letters of the New Testament. Thirteen of the twenty-one letters of the New Testament are attributed to a man named Paul. Paul was a Jewish Pharisee who initially sought to suppress the Christian movement. However he himself was converted to Christ and became its greatest evangelist. He took the gospel across the Roman Empire, establishing churches everywhere he went. Adam Hamilton offers a great description of Paul and his letters: “Paul started new faith communities, set aside leaders in these fledgling churches, and then would leave to go preach in another town. When those leaders had questions or concerns, they sent messages to Paul, who wrote letters in response. His letters taught, encouraged, and sought to offer practical advice and help to these new Christians. Others also wrote to various communities doing much the same—challenging, encouraging, correcting, and teaching. Twenty-one of the twenty-seven New Testament ‘books’ are letters from the apostles, mostly from Paul.” And what do these letters teach us? Well, a lot! But today I want to underscore that they teach us that Each Jesus Follower has a Key Role to Play in the Church. We all have a role to play in the church. In one of Paul’s letters he articulates this message beautifully: Just as a body, though one, has many parts, but all its many parts form one body, so it is with Christ. 13 For we were all baptized by one Spirit so as to form one body—whether Jews or Gentiles, slave or free—and we were all given the one Spirit to drink. 14 Even so the body is not made up of one part but of many… …in fact God has placed the parts in the body, every one of them, just as he wanted them to be. 19 If they were all one part, where would the body be? 20 As it is, there are many parts, but one body…. 21 The eye cannot say to the hand, “I don’t need you!” And the head cannot say to the feet, “I don’t need you! ….If one part suffers, every part suffers with it; if one part is honored, every part rejoices with it. 27 Now you are the body of Christ, and each one of you is a part of it. -1st Cor. 12 We all play an important role in the church. You see, you can be a Christian without going to church, but not a very good one! I don’t know any Christian who is growing and serving effectively who is not active in a local church. In fact, I challenge anyone to find me one person who is a healthy Christian who is not active in a church. We need the church! There is no such thing as an isolated Christian. It is biblically impossible. Once you receive Christ as Savior you are grafted into the body of Christ. Paul told us in this passage that we all play a key role in the body of Christ and we need each other. Together, by the power of God, we achieve more for God. Finally, the New Testament ends with a book filled with peculiar visions of the conflict between God and evil and of evil’s final defeat – the book of Revelation. 