Just imagine where that obedience to God will take you. Remember that obedience leads to blessing. And that’s what B stands for! B stands for blessing. Take a look again at what God says to Abraham in Genesis 12:2: “I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you, and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing.” Abraham was blessed to be a blessing! At the end of the day, God blessed Abraham so that he could be a blessing to others! And what a blessing he was! Folks, we are blessed by God to be a blessing. That’s your purpose and my purpose in life. And until we figure that out, we will never find meaning and fulfillment in life. Mark my words: The happiest people in the world are the ones who have figured this out and the most miserable people on earth are those who haven’t. There are two types of people in the world – those who always look around for what they don’t have, who always feel like they don’t have enough, who take, take, and take. Then there are those who see everything they have as a blessing and ask each day, “How can I bless others with my blessings?” Which one are you? Do you look for ways to be a blessing to others with what you have or do you always feel you don’t have enough? After people leave your presence, do they feel blessed to have been with you or do they feel like that time with you was time they will never get back? What do you have that will bless others? This is 77 year old James Harrison of Australia. When he was 14 years old he underwent major chest surgery and almost died. He required 3 gallons of blood to survive the surgery. Realizing the blood had saved his life, he vowed that when he was old enough to donate blood he would do it the rest of his life. James started donating blood in 1954 and soon it was discovered that his blood contained a special antibody that cured Rhesus disease, the most common blood disease in newborns. In 2011, Harrison reached a blood donation record of 1,000. That is one donation every 3 weeks, and he never misses an opportunity. Even on vacation, he makes sure to stop by a donor center. He is known as “the man with a golden arm” because over the course of 57 years he has saved the lives of over 2.2 million babies. Harrison says, "More and more blood is needed every day, so if every current donor brought along one friend we wouldn't have the sort of shortage we have at the moment," he said. "An hour of your time is a lifetime for someone else." Just as Abraham used his blessings to give life to so many, Harrison used his gift to give life to so many. And, of course, Jesus gave his life to give life to the whole world. All of us are blessed by God to be a blessing. Remember F.T.O.B. – Bea Friend of God, Trust in God, Obey God and Bless others for God. You remember that and follow it and you will never be the same. Amen. ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org Pasadena Community Church JJJJJooooouuuuurrrrrnnnnneeeeey yyyyTTTTThhhhhrrrrrooooouuuuugggggh hhhhttttthhhhhe eeeeBBBBBiiiiibbbbbllllle eeee~ Abraham and Sarah Sunday, January 11, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Scripture Lesson: Genesis 12:1-This morning I continue our series “Journey Through the Bible.” For the next several weeks we are taking an exciting and informative journey through scripture. We will be covering the main themes and characters in the Old Testament and New Testament. In this journey we will learn how God speaks to us through scripture. The big reason for this series is the hunger I sense many of you have to know more about the overall story of the Bible. Sometimes the church just forgets to tell the story of scripture. Most of the time when you come to church you just get bits and pieces of the Bible. This series gives you the opportunity to immerse yourself in the whole biblical story and be transformed by it. Last week I broke the Guinness Book of World Records by covering the entire Old Testament in 30 minutes. Not really. Well, the world record part. I did give a whirl wind trip through the Old Testament in 30 minutes by allowing you to hear the entire Old Testament story of the Jewish people. For the next few weeks we will focus on some of the main themes and characters in the Old Testament. As I said last week, this series just scratches the surface. My hope is that these messages compel you to run home, dust off your Bible and devour it and be transformed by how God speaks to you through it. Today we look at the book of Genesis. We move through the first eleven chapters of “universal salvation history” and find the story of Creation and the Fall, Cain and Abel, Noah and the Ark, and the Tower of Babel. All of those stories are important and I encourage you to read them. But today we focus on one of the key characters in Genesis and the entire Bible: Abraham. The lessons his life and faith teach us are essential for a vibrant faith. If you struggle with trusting God, Abraham is your man! This morning you are going to find out why. I remember first learning about Abraham in Sunday school as a kid. We would sing songs about him. I would get up in worship with my class and sing, “Father Abraham has many sons…..” As a kid, I knew he was important somehow. He had many descendants and those descendants were ultimately related to me. But I didn’t realize how important Abraham was until I got older. In fact, the story of Abraham became very important to me when I felt God calling me into ordained ministry. I was just 16 years old. I had zits on my face and I had a crush on a girl. I was really into tennis and other sports. But soon I began to sense God’s call in my heart to preach. I was clueless. I didn’t know what to do. “Me a preacher? Where do I go? How do I go about doing this? What if I fail?” I recall speaking to a sweet lady in our church who was a youth counselor. I told her about my call and the anxious feelings I had about it. She asked, “Remember Abraham? Go reread his story again. I think it will help you.” Well, I did go back and reread the story of Abraham and he came alive for me. In fact, the story of Abraham encouraged and empowered me to take the next step and follow God’s call into ministry. That’s how important the story of Abraham is to me. And I believe his story can be just as important to you. There is a reason why the entire biblical story is rooted in the story of Abraham and his descendants. The lessons Abraham’s life teach us about our faith are foundational because Abraham’s story empowers us to trust God completely with our lives. Have you ever struggled with trusting God? I think most of us have. Have you ever felt led by God in a certain way but you were terrified and didn’t know where it would take you? Maybe that’s where you are today. You feel led by God to do the right thing but you are concerned where that will take you. You feel led by God to make some kind of change in your life but you are terrified of change and you don’t know what that change might look like. Perhaps you are barely hanging on today. Life has torn you apart. Prayers have not been answered. And you are ready to give up on your prayers and give up on God. And maybe you feel like you just can’t bring yourself to trust God anymore. Well, hold on. Take a breath and allow yourself to hear the lessons of Abraham. They just might be a game changer for you. They just might be exactly what you need to take that next step, make that change, and revitalize your faith in God. So here is what I want you to do. If you are taking notes, just write these letters down horizontally: F, T, O, B. I got this nifty acrostic from Adam Hamilton. These letters reveal the powerful lessons of Abraham’s life that just might make all the difference to you today. You ready? F signifies a key lesson for us when seeking the courage to trust in God. Just consider this. At the beginning of Abraham’s life he worshipped many gods. That was the world and culture he group in. They had a god for everything. But Abraham had an epiphany one day and came to the place where he realized there was only one God – only one creator – only one Lord of the universe. This was a very radical idea at the time. No one had even considered that. This is why Abraham is called the “Father of Monotheism” (the belief in one God). It all started with Abraham! But I will tell you what is even more radical. Not only did Abraham discover there was only one God. He also came to know and understand the character of this God that created everything. And Abraham came to know and experience this God not as a distant God or an angry God or an absentee God but a God who was knowable and loving and a God who desired to be close to us, to be in relationship with us. Abraham’s experience of this knowable, loving, intimate God was revolutionary. In fact, the Bible gives Abraham the greatest compliment. I don’t think there is a higher compliment. In 2nd Chronicles 20:7 and Isaiah 41:8 Abraham is called “A Friend of God.” I want that on my tombstone! He was God’s friend. A friend to God! So the F stands for “Friend of God.” Do you have friendships where you do all the giving? You do favors for them but they never do favors for you. You call them but they never call you. You listen to them but they never really listen to you. You are a friend to them but they are never really a friend to you. I think most of us have had or have those kinds of relationships. And you come to accept it. That’s just the way it is. Adam Hamilton once remarked that quite often our relationship with God is one sided like that. God is a friend to us. He does all the listening, all the giving, all the loving, all the blessing. We ask and he gives, but do we ever consider being a friend to God? Do we ever consider doing things for God? The Bible tells me that God has a need for us to reciprocate his love, to love him back. After all, why do you think he created us? God has a need for companionship. I don’t know about you, but I want to be a friend to God. I want to say, “Lord, thank you for being a friend to me. You have done so much for me. You have loved and saved me. You have given me so many blessings. I want to be your friend. You are already my Lord and Savior, and now I want to be your friend. I want to think more of you than I do myself.” This was Abraham’s heart. This is who Abraham was – a friend of God. This is why God chose Abraham to be the father of monotheism and the foundation of the Bible and the Hebrew people. It wasn’t because he was sophisticated or rich or powerful or notable in any way. Heck, when God got a hold of Abraham he was at the back end of his life, 75 years old. He had no offspring. He worshipped many gods. He had terrible theology. He lied. He was deceptive. He was divorced. And God chose him! God has a habit of choosing the most unlikely people! Ever heard the song by Garth Brooks, “I’ve Got Friends in Low Places”? Well, that’s the story of God in many ways. Moses was a stutterer. David was young and rowdy. God in Christ chose disciples who couldn’t read or write. Jesus hung out with prostitutes and sinners and often made them the heroes. God picks the most unlikely people like Abraham because they are available and they are willing to be God’s friend. Now we get to T. As you consider T, I want to lift up a pivotal moment in Abraham’s story. It appears in Genesis 12:1-3: Now the LORD said to Abram, “Go from your country and your kindred and your father’s house to the land that I will show you. 2 I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you, and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. 3 I will bless those who bless you, and the one who curses you I will curse; and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.” So here is Abraham minding his own business and God tells him to call the UHaul Company, pack up the trailer, and leave his home. “Ah, God, where do you want me to go?” “I’ll show you.” “Can you show me now?” “I will tell you when you need to know.” “Um, God, in order to convince my wife Sarah it would be helpful to know where I am going.” “Abraham, just trust me. Pack everything up and go.” Now can you imagine Abraham coming home that day to Sarah? Sarah is sitting in the living room watch Family Feud and Abraham says, “Uh, sweetheart, I spoke with God today and he wants us to move.” “Where does he want us t move?” “You know, he didn’t really say?” “What?!” “He just told me to call the U-Haul company, pack up our things and go.” “And he didn’t say where?” “No.” “Abraham were you not listening? You know sometimes you don’t hear a word I say, so maybe you were not listening.” “No, honey, I was listening. He didn’t tell me where we are going.” Now the Bible does not say but I believe there is a piece of the story missing here. I think Abraham’s real conversation with Sarah is left out. Because my theory is that Sarah is the one who convinced Abraham to go. Let’s face it. Behind every good man is an even better woman! Abraham listened to Sarah and Sarah said, “You pray and I’ll pack!” Let’s be honest. If Sarah had said no, Abraham would not have gone! So in Genesis 12:4 we read nine very important words in the Bible: “So Abram went, as the LORD had told him.” Abraham and Sarah left their home having no clue where God was leading them. But he promised them children and many descendants. He promised to answer their prayers. And God was faithful and honored Abraham’s faith and eventually God would lead him to the Promised Land! What kind of people do this? Those who have great trust in God! And great trust in God is letting go and allowing God to be great in your life. In fact, the Bible mentions Abraham’s great faith in God over 31 times! It was his faith that the rest of the Bible is built upon. Take a look at what the New Testament says about Abraham in Hebrews 11:8-12: By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to set out for a place that he was to receive as an inheritance; and he set out, not knowing where he was going. By faith he stayed for a time in the land he had been promised….For he looked forward to the city that has foundations, whose architect and builder is God. By faith he received power of procreation, even though he was too old—and Sarah herself was barren—because he considered him faithful who had promised. Therefore from one person, and this one as good as dead, descendants were born, “as many as the stars of heaven and as the innumerable grains of sand by the seashore.” Abraham’s faith is so inspiring. He was just like you and me, but he had the good sense to trust God even when he had no idea where he was going. And look how God blessed him! What I have learned is that there is a time to wrestle with God and then there is a time to trust God. Perhaps today, whatever your struggle is, it is time to trust God. He is faithful. Now we get to the O. The O stands for Obedience. It says, “An Abraham went.” He trusted God and then he put one foot in front of the other and obeyed God. Sometimes the hardest trip to make is from faith to obedience. But obedience makes all the difference in the world! Obedience is what opens the door for God’s purpose of our lives. If God called you tonight to sell your home and leave town without knowing exactly what would be next, would you do it? Is God speaking to you today? Is God nudging your heart today to move out of your comfort zone and do something extraordinary for him? Is God asking you to trust him in a way you have never trusted him before? I don’t think we are truly obeying God unless from time to time we are forced to trust him beyond our comfort zone. Maybe in the silence you feel that pull from God. Maybe in this message you have felt that pull. Perhaps lately as you read scripture you feel that pull from God. Maybe it is to do the right thing and speak up for someone. Maybe it is a new ministry God has gifted you to start. Maybe it is just inviting a neighbor to church. Maybe it is to give more, to trust more, to follow that dream you God has put in your heart. I have a friend named Sue. I have been friends with Sue and her husband Allen a long time. Sue was once a high powered attorney in Tampa, driving a BMW and making lots of money. She cut through cases with her sharp, brilliant mind. She was admired and sought after for her skills and talent. She did go to church on Sunday from time to time. One day she felt it. And she kept feeling it and sensing it. She hoped it would go away and it never did. It just gnawed at her. She felt that God was calling her into the ministry. She thought, “No way! I’ll have to give up all this money, this car, this lifestyle, this prestige.” She wrestled with God. She came up with excuses. She told herself it was just her imagination. One day she relented. She left her prestigious firm, sold her BMW, said goodbye to her expensive townhouse and lifestyle and entered seminary. Where is Sue now? She has served churches with great effectiveness, and now she is a District Superintendent. And one day she just might be a Bishop. What a ministry! And it all begin with one obedient step of faith. What is God calling you to do? 