they didn’t. They were there before the exile and after the exile. They were there when they returned to their homeland and things were comfortable. They would not let them forget about God and his promises. So what is God’s word for us in this? Did you just come for a lecture? Well, God still speaks to us through the Old Testament because the Old Testament story is our story too! In Genesis we find God’s final act of creation was creating us. We are created in God’s image! We are created to be recipients of God’s love and to love God back and love others. Take a look at Deuteronomy 6:45:“Hear, O Israel: The LORD our God, the LORD is one. Love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength.” The story of the Bible says we were created out of love to give love in return. But when we reject God and his love things don’t go well. We are not whole. God has given us free will and we struggle with it. Do we choose God or do we not choose God? That is the story of the Bible and it is our story too. Couldn’t you resonate with the people of Israel? They struggled with this throughout their history. But the underlying theme of the Old Testament is through all this God continues to take Israel back, and by his grace, he continues to take us back. I want to end by reading a portion of the book of Hosea, chapter 11. Feel God’s love and compassion for Israel being expressed: “When Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son. But the more they were called, the more they went away from me. They sacrificed to the Baals and they burned incense to images. It was I who taught Ephraim to walk, taking them by the arms; but they did not realize it was I who healed them. I led them with cords of human kindness, with ties of love. To them I was like one who lifts a little child to the cheek, and I bent down to feed them. “How can I give you up, Ephraim? How can I hand you over, Israel? How can I treat you like Admah? How can I make you like Zeboyim? My heart is changed within me; all my compassion is aroused. We all make mistakes. We all make the wrong choices. In our failures, we discover that life without God never satisfies. But the amazing thing is God always takes us back. That is the story of the Old Testament and it our story. Thanks be to God. Amen. ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org Pasadena Community Church JJJJJooooouuuuurrrrrnnnnneeeeey yyyyTTTTThhhhhrrrrrooooouuuuugggggh hhhhttttthhhhhe eeeeBBBBBiiiiibbbbbllllle eeee~ The Old Testament in 30 Minutes Sunday, January 4, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Today I begin a new sermon series called “Journey Through the Bible.” The sermon series is largely based upon a Bible study I did last year on both the Old Testament and New Testament. I enjoyed doing the Bible study but I was not prepared for the response I received. What I learned from teaching that Bible study is that there is an overwhelming hunger out there for people to learn more about the Bible. I also discovered that people want to learn more about the Bible but often they are afraid to admit that they don't know much about the Bible. They desire a safe, non intimidating space to learn more and ask questions and have a good time doing it. So since that Bible study really scratched an itch for several people I thought it would be a good idea to do a sermon series on this very study. I imagine there are many more people who come to worship on Sunday who really want to learn more about the Bible too! Obviously, one of the main purposes of this series is to help us all learn more about the most important book history and the best-selling book of all time. And I hope that as you learn more about the Bible you will feel compelled to go home and read your Bible and grow in your faith as a result. I also know there may be folks in worship today who have come out of curiosity. You saw the post card we mailed out about this series and you want to learn more about this Bible that everyone talks about. You may not consider yourself a Christian or religious but you just want to learn more. Well, I am glad you are here and I hope you feel welcome here. I also hope this will be a learning experience for you as well. The second purpose of this series really follows the first. You might be surprised to know that a very small percentage of Christians really know the Bible. In fact there have been some polls done over the last few years that are rather staggering. A Pew research study done in 2010 in America found that evangelical Christians’ knowledge of the New Testament is only a smidgen higher than most atheists. The Barna Group, a Christian research organization, found in 2012 that most evangelicals in America have attitudes and beliefs that are more in line with the Pharisees, the religious leaders who often opposed the teachings of Jesus. The bottom line, which may be difficult for many to accept and face, is that even though Americans and Christians revere the Bible many of them don't read it and they don’t know what is in it. Of course because there are so many Christians who don't read and understand the Bible it is going to be misunderstood and misinterpreted. So in this series my hope is that as we journey through the Bible and learn its main themes and characters we will learn how God speaks to us through the Bible and why this book is so important. It is only through understanding the Bible and who put it together that we can comprehend what history’s most important book says and, just as important, what it does not say. So for the next few weeks we're going to walk through the entire Bible and listen to what God wants to say to us through it. Now I know today's title is interesting. I know some of your thinking, “Is he really going to cover the entire Old Testament in 30 minutes?” Well the answer to that is that I'm going to try. And of course, as you can see, I'm going to cover a lot of material in a short amount of time, so get ready! I think you can handle it! You ready to impress your friends with all of your knowledge of the Old Testament? Let’s get started. Today I want to give you the “Cliff Notes” version of the Old Testament – a broad sweep of it and cover all the books and their major themes and characters. What I have learned is that most of the time you just get bits and pieces of the Bible. Rarely do you just get to hear the entire story at one time. So this morning just allow the Old Testament story to sweep over you and experience it. I want to start off this morning by saying that the Old Testament (the Hebrew Bible) is really the book that shaped Jesus’ life and the life of the early church. Their Bible was the Old Testament. A great example of this is when Jesus was tempted in the desert. How did he respond to temptation? He responded to temptation by quoting the Old Testament. And when Jesus was on the cross he prayed the Old Testament. He prayed Psalm 22, “My God, My God why have you forsaken me?” And then as we look at the New Testament Epistles we find the Apostle Paul telling us in 2nd Timothy that “All Scripture is inspired by God” and is useful for building up the church. The scripture he was referring to was the Old Testament. The Old Testament contains 39 books and covers about 1400 years – 1800-432B.C. The Old Testament can be broken down into three sections: The Historical Books (17), which contain the story of the Hebrew people; The Poetic Books (5), containing the wisdom learned by the Hebrew people throughout their history; The Prophetic Books (17), which give warnings in various stages of Israel's history. We begin, of course, with the book of Genesis. Genesis begins with the poetic account of God creating the world. Later, we are introduced to Abraham and his wife Sarah. The story of the Bible is about the descendants of Abraham and Sarah. Abraham and Sarah were up in years and never had any children. Yet God made a promise with Abraham that if he would stay faithful, God would bless him with as many descendants as there are stars in the sky. So Abraham was faithful to God and God blessed him with children. Abraham had a child with his handmaiden and named him Ishmael. And, of course, Abraham had a child with Sarah and his name was Isaac. The Old Testament covers the descendants of Isaac because after Isaac we have Jacob and Esau. Jacob means “Israel,” which means one who “struggles with God.” So Jacob’s descendants became known as “Israelites.” Fast forward many years later and we find that the Israelites experienced a great famine in the land of Canaan. So they migrated out of Canaan through the Euphrates River for food and resources. They settled in the area of Goshen. And I want to you to see a map that shows their journey to Goshen. When they settled in Goshen they found some very nice people called Hyksos who welcomed the Israelites. Later, however, the Egyptians would come along and overthrow the Hyksos and make the Israelites their slaves for four hundred years. Now we turn our attention to the book of Exodus and we find that in 1290 B.C. God called a man by the name of Moses to save his people. Moses was an 80 year old goat herder from the Sinai Peninsula. Moses confronted Pharaoh and told him to release the Hebrew people but Pharaoh did not relent. God then sent plagues down on Egypt which persuaded Pharaoh to release the Hebrew people! Moses led the Israelites through the Red Sea to freedom. However, the Israelites would wander in the wilderness for 40 years before they would reach the Promised Land. They could've gotten there a lot quicker but they, like many of us, were slow learners when it came to being faithful to God. So it was while they were wandering in the desert that God gave Moses the 10 Commandments and made a Covenant with Moses which included 613 laws. Fast-forward forty years and we find that Moses brought the Israelites just to the edge of the Promised Land. Some of you know Moses did not get to enter the Promised Land with the Israelites. He gave a powerful speech reminding the Israelites to be faithful to God and then Moses died. That's when Joshua took over and led the people of God into the land of Canaan. They conquered Canaan and lived in the Promised Land. The books Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy recount the period the Jews were delivered from Egypt and entered the Promised Land. We add Genesis to that list and we get what is called the Torah, the first five books of the Old Testament. Torah means “Law.” Now we turn our attention to the books of Joshua and Judges. These two books tell the interesting story of the 200 year history of the Israelites living in Canaan. Sadly, during this time they would forget God. They would be attacked by enemies and then, of course, the people of God would cry out for help and God would send warriors known as Judges. The Judges were there to remind people to follow God and to do what was right. The people of God would do that for a while and then they would forget God again and get attacked. They would cry out and God would send more judges. This went on for about 200 years. After about 200 years the people finally told Samuel, the last judge, that they wanted a king to rule over them. Samuel said they didn't need a king but the people of God insisted. So God gave them Saul who ruled between 1050 and 1010 B.C. After King Saul came the greatest King of Israel, King David. After King David was King Solomon who came to power in 970 B.C. During the course of his reign he constructed a great temple where the people of God would worship for 400 years. The books Ruth, 1st and 2nd Samuel, and 1st and 2nd Chronicles tell the story of the great monarchy, especially of King David and King Solomon. In 1st and 2nd Kings the plot thickens with the story of Israel. King Solomon’s son Rehoboam was not a very good king. He came to power in 930 B.C. and he wanted to rule with an iron fist. So the people of Israel rebelled against this king and the people of God were split into two camps – Israel was in the north and Judah was in the south. Here is a map of that split. The bottom line is that the split didn't end well for either camp. Most of the Kings they had over the years were terrible. They worshipped other gods and were corrupted by power. They forgot about the weak suppressed among them. It was during this time that God rose up Prophets to be the conscience of the people of God. The prophets were there to remind them that God was the source of their blessings and if they turned away from God they would be susceptible to being destroyed by other kingdoms. Well, that's exactly what happened. The people of God rebelled against God and both camps, Judah and Israel, were attacked by other kingdoms. The Assyrians in 722 B.C. took over Israel in the north and intermarried with them. Later, the southern tribe of Judah was conquered by the Babylonians. To be fair, when the people of Judah were exiled they did remain faithful to God. They humbled themselves before God and created places of worship in the midst of their exile. They remembered who they were and whose they were and God honored that. On 538 B.C. the Babylonians were conquered by the Persians. Cyrus the Persian allowed the Jews to go back to their homeland. So 50,000 Jews traveled back to their homeland and the books Ezra and Nehemiah tell the story of their journey back to their homeland. They found Jerusalem in ruins and they rebuilt the city walls and the Temple. The book of Esther tells the beautiful story of the Jewish woman Esther who was married to the King of Persia. Esther persuaded the King of Persia not to annihilate the Jewish people but to allow them to be free. The Jewish people, to this day, owe their survival to Esther. Of course in about 100 years the people of God would get too comfortable again and they would forget about God. Malachi, the final prophet and the last book of the Old Testament, would warn them once again. Malachi told them that they were not giving God their heart. He called them to repent and remember what happened to their ancestors. He warned them that if they did not repent that if they did not turn back to God what happened to their ancestors would happen to them. And there you have, in a nutshell, the story of the Old Testament – 1400 years of history. Each book in the Old Testament is rooted in the history that I just described. For example, the poetic books intersect with this history in a powerful way. The book of Job wrestles with the problem of evil and suffering. The book of Psalms contains the prayers and songs written across the course of history from the time of David until after the exile. Basically Psalms was the hymnbook of the people of Israel. The book of Proverbs contains pity sayings about how life works written by Solomon and the people who came after him. Ecclesiastes, which is attributed to Solomon, reveals Solomon reflecting at the end of his life, struggling with the meaning of life. He comes to the conclusion that all of life is empty except our relationship with God. And then Song of Songs is a very interesting book about erotic love and God's blessings on human intimacy and sex. And then we have the Prophets. From Isaiah to Malachi, the Prophets were the conscience of the people of God, and as we will learn in this series, our conscience too. The Prophets were always there throughout Israel’s history to warn them to follow God or they would be destroyed. They were there before Israel and Judah were conquered to warn them and they were there afterwards. They were there to give them hope about their future if they obeyed God and to warn them about their future if 