that. Lord knows the world has had enough of that! But it does mean that we lovingly confront those who are being irresponsible for their sake and for the sake of those they may hurt. Today’s message forces us to ask two penetrating questions: Am I taking responsibility for my life? Am I willing to lovingly confront irresponsibility within my own communities? So what happened to Joshua? Well, he stopped praying and took action! He found Achan’s stash of gold and silver and put it back in Jericho. Achan was punished and Joshua proceeded to defeat to city of Ai. He and the Israelites moved on triumphantly. So here is what I want us to think about and act on. There may be some here who are praying a lot but doing very little. Perhaps God’s message through this story today is that it is time to get up off your knees and do something. Take responsibility for your life. God will help you but you must do your part. Stanley reminds us that there are some things we don’t need to pray about. We don’t need to pray about whether or not we should be faithful to our spouses. The Bible has that covered. We don’t need to pray about whether or not we should steal something or whether or not we should love our enemy or serve those in need. The Bible has that covered. Or think about it this way. If you are praying hard because your irresponsibility has gotten you in a mess, maybe it’s time to say “Amen” and get up and take charge of your life. If you’re praying about money problems, it’s time to stand up and control your spending and begin saving. If you’re praying to get a job, it’s time to ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org stand up and start looking for one. If you’re praying to get healthy, it is time to stand up and join a gym. If you desire to get closer to God, it is time to receive Christ as Savior, join the church and get involved in a Bible study. For those of you are who faced with irresponsibility in your own community, maybe it is time to take action and confront it. Students, is someone being bullied in your class? It is time to tell a teacher and be a friend to the victim. Do you have a loved one whose addiction has gotten out of hand? It is time to confront him or her, draw the line and set boundaries. Is there someone at work who is mistreating employees? It is time to stand up and address it. Is there someone in your family saying hurtful things to a loved one? It is time to confront them. Folks, prayer is essential but it is futile if it does not lead to action. We are called to love one another and sometimes loving others means taking responsibility for our lives so we don’t hurt others. And sometimes it means confronting irresponsibility in others to prevent the suffering of many. As you pray today, perhaps God will say to you as he said to Joshua, “Stand up! Stand up! Go and take responsibility and take action in my name. Amen.” -I am grateful for Andy Stanley’s message, “This Is No Time to Pray!” His insights were very helpful as I prepared this sermon. Pasadena Community Church JJJJJooooouuuuurrrrrnnnnneeeeey yyyyTTTTThhhhhrrrrrooooouuuuugggggh hhhhttttthhhhhe eeeeBBBBBiiiiibbbbbllllle eeee~ A Lesson from Joshua Sunday, January 25, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Scripture Lesson: Joshua This morning I continue our series “Journey Through the Bible.” For the next several weeks we are taking an exciting and informative journey through scripture. We will be covering the main themes and characters in the Old Testament and New Testament. In this journey we will learn how God speaks to us through scripture. The big reason for this series is the hunger I sense many of you have to know more about the Bible and the overall story of the Bible. Sometimes the church just forgets to tell the story. Most of the time when you come to church you get bits and pieces of the Bible. This series gives you the opportunity to immerse yourself in the biblical story and be transformed by it. As I have said before, this series just scratches the surface. I can’t possibly do an exhaustive study of the entire Bible in ten weeks. So my hope is that these messages compel you to run home, dust off your Bible and devour it and be transformed by how God speaks to you through it. We began with a quick tour through the entire Old Testament. After that we took a closer look at Genesis and Abraham, the father of monotheism, and the foundation of the Hebrew people. We were inspired by his faith and obedience to God and learned we are blessed to be a blessing. Last week Sidney taught you about Moses and the Exodus. You learned about Moses’ obedience to God’s call to release his people from slavery in Egypt and the profound meaning behind the Ten Commandments. Today we are going to take a closer look at the successor of Moses – Joshua. The story of Joshua’s life teaches us a critical message about responsibility. You see, the Bible does teach us to pray and wait for the Lord, and there are times for that. But the Bible also teaches us to take action and take responsibility for our lives. Have you ever heard the old saying, “He is so heavenly minded that he is no earthly good!” Well, Joshua teaches us not to be that way! In fact, if you are someone here who is not really religious and you find that many religious people are always hiding behind prayers and holy language but never really DO something to make a difference in this world, you are going to love this message. God calls us to be responsible for the life he has given us. So it makes sense that the message of Joshua also addresses another group of people – the enablers. Andy Stanley calls enablers those who have “misguided compassion.” Misguided compassion is applying compassion incorrectly. Stanley says, “When you see people act irresponsibly, instead of holding them accountable, you think of all these reasons why it's okay for them to have acted that way: Well, he had a tough start; she's not as smart as everybody else in the class; he didn't come from a good home.” By this kind of thinking you are actually enabling irresponsibility. Of course, today’s message also touches those who are tired of being responsible for irresponsible people. You are doing the right thing and taking responsibility for your life but you continue to suffer the consequences of the irresponsible people around you. If you are tired of the unfairness of that, this message is for you too! I remember the first time I learned the definition of the word “incorrigible.” I was in the 6th grade. I don’t ever remember hearing that word before. But one day I learned the meaning of it and would never forget it. One of my teacher’s was Mrs. Yost. She was a very wise lady. She was tall, confident, and had a huge heart. One day I was cutting up in class with another classmate. His name was Tom, and he was always getting into trouble. I had finished my assignment but Mrs. Yost told us if we finished early to remain quiet. Well, I didn’t. Tom and I began to play paper football and were making all kinds of racket. Mrs. Yost called me to her desk and informed that because I broke the rules I would have stay after school that day for detention. I went back to my seat and waited for Mrs. Yost to call Tom to her desk. She never did! I was so angry! After the bell rang I went up to her and asked, “Mrs. Yost! How come I got detention and Tom didn’t?” She replied, “Because he is incorrigible and you are not.” I replied, “What? What does that mean?” She said, “You can look up the word during detention.” So I did. During detention I grabbed a dictionary and found the “incorrigible.” This is what is said: “Not able to be corrected, improved, or reformed.” I thought, “Okay, Mrs. Yost must not totally despise me. She thinks I can be reformed!” However, I did feel a bit sorry for Tom. You know what? I never acted up in Mrs. Yost’s class again. In fact, I came to really love and appreciate Mrs. Yost. At the end of the year she was one of my favorite teachers. I asked her to sign my yearbook and I will never forget what she wrote: “Charley, it has been great having you in my class. Remember the word “incorrigible” and don’t ever be that!” Mrs. Yost confronted my irresponsible behavior, held me accountable and it made a difference! I think Mrs. Yost would like this sermon today because it is all about the importance of acting responsibly in life and not being incorrigible. For being incorrigible can have a drastic impact on our lives and the lives of those around us. We must take responsibility for our lives if we are going to become the people God wants us to be. And Joshua is going to teach us about that. So let’s take a closer look at Joshua and what he can teach us. To give you a quick summary, Moses led the people out of slavery through the wilderness and just to the edge of the Jordan River and the Promised Land. He never entered it. Before he died he gave a speech and told the people to be faithful to God. When Moses died, Joshua took over as the leader of Israel. He led the Israelites across the Jordan River and into the Promised Land. When Joshua led the people of God into the Promised Land, there were 3 million of them. And it wasn’t a cake walk for them to settle back into God’s home for them. There were other people living there. And these folks were pagans called the Amorites. They sacrificed children to pagan gods, abused women, and did other barbaric things. God did not want the Israelites to marry the pagans or take their cattle or their gold or silver. God did not want them to have anything to do with the pagan people. God wanted a new beginning with the Israelites. He wanted them to have a fresh start and be a pure nation untarnished by paganism and injustice. So God ordered Joshua and the Israelites to push the pagan nation out and take them over. Their first battle was the battle of Jericho. Some of you may remember that famous battle. For six days the Israelite army marched around the city. On the seventh day, they marched seven times, and then they were ordered to shout. When they did the walls of Jericho fell down. And they won the battle of Jericho by depending completely on God. But the plot thickened when they encountered the city of Ai. During the battle of Jericho a man named Achan had disobeyed God. He did not leave everything behind. He took gold and silver from the pagans and hid his treasure under his tent and didn’t tell anyone about it. As Joshua led the fight on the city of Ai, he was unaware of Achan’s little stash. This is where we pick up the story in Joshua 7: Joshua 7:2: Now when Joshua sent men from Jericho [because they had just defeated Jericho] to Ai, which is near Beth Aven to the east of Bethel, and told them, 'Go up and spy out the region.' So the men went up and spied out Ai. When they returned to Joshua, they said, “Not all the army will have to go up against Ai.” In other words, they thought the battle of Ai would be easier than the battle of Jericho. They thought, “This will be easy. We don’t even have to use our whole army!” But they were wrong. Take a look: So about three thousand went up; but they were routed by the men of Ai, who killed about 36 of them. They chased the Israelites from the city gate as far as the stone quarries and struck them down on the slopes. At this the hearts of the people melted in fear and became like water. The Israelites began to ask that question that all of us have asked at one time or another, "Where is God? Where is God? We have suffered so much! This was supposed to be easy, and where is God?” The battle of Ai was supposed to be easy but it wasn’t and they lost 36 men. Let’s read on: Then Joshua tore his clothes and fell facedown to the ground before the ark of the Lord, remaining there till evening. The elders of Israel did the same, and sprinkled dust on their heads. And Joshua said, "O, Sovereign Lord, why did you ever bring this people across the Jordan to deliver us into the hands of the Amorites to destroy us? If only we had been content to stay on the other side of the Jordan! Pardon your servant, Lord. What can I say, now that Israel has been routed by its enemies? The Canaanites and the other people of the country will hear about this and they will surround us and wipe out our name from the earth. What then will you do for your own great name?” Here Joshua was trying to manipulate God, “Help us! Aren’t you embarrassed? This reflects badly on you too! Remember we represent you!” And I love God’s reply to Joshua: The Lord said to Joshua, “Stand up! What are you doing down on your face?" The funny thing is God was saying to Joshua, “Why are you praying to me? DO something!” And Joshua was probably thinking, “What? I am praying for you to DO something! It’s your fault we are in this mess!” But God reminds Joshua who really got them into the mess they were in: “Israel has sinned; they have violated my covenant, which I commanded them to keep. They have taken some of the devoted things [things meant to be considered as sacrifice to God], they have stolen, they have lied, they have put them with their own possessions. That is why the Israelites cannot stand against their enemies; they turn their backs and run because they have been made liable to destruction. I will not be with you anymore unless you destroy whatever among you is devoted to destruction. Go, consecrate the people. Tell them, "Consecrate yourselves in preparation for tomorrow; for this is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: There are devoted things among you, Israel. You cannot stand against your enemies until you have removed them." Who is God talking about? Who stole? Who lied? Who deceived? Achan. Here is the moral of the story. Here is the point I want you to get. Irresponsible behavior can impact an entire community. It can impact a nation, a business, a school, a neighborhood, and a family. Look at this story! Israel lost an entire battle over one man’s irresponsibility. All God asked was that the people leave behind the gold and silver of the pagans. But Achan could not resist his greed. He gave in, took the gold and silver, and the entire nation of Israel suffered the consequences. I know the story seems ridiculous as we read it today. “Really? That does not seem fair! One man screws up and a whole nation pays for it! That is not right!” You are correct! It’s not right, but it happens. Why? Because we are all connected and our words and actions have a ripple effect on everyone around us. When a spouse commits adultery or has an addiction, who suffers? The other spouse, the kids, and possibly friends. When parents are irresponsible, who suffers? The children. When someone in a business steals from that business, who suffers? Everyone in that business. When a church goes through a scandal because of irresponsible leaders or members, the entire church is torn apart. Look at the recession we went through! We can analyze it to death, but one thing we can all agree on is that it taught us that the financial irresponsibility of a few caused the entire nation to suffer. So what are we supposed to do? Confront irresponsibility. Now that sounds rather aggressive and unloving, doesn’t it? But when we really look at it, it is the most loving and Christian thing we can do. What is loving? Allowing irresponsibility to negatively impact the lives of many or standing up to it and sparing others from suffering and pain? Read the Prophets. They are always confronting irresponsibility. Read the gospels. Jesus was constantly calling out those whose irresponsible behavior was impacting people. Look at the life of MLK. Think of how many lives he changed because he had the courage to confront the people who were acting irresponsibly toward those whose skin was a different color? Now this doesn’t mean we go around acting like a bunch of zealots with hatred in our eyes and poison in our words. This doesn’t mean we have a license to be judgmental. Jesus warned us about 