and the catcher does everything. When I fly to Joe, I have simply to stretch out my arms and hands and wait for him to catch me. The worst thing the flyer can do is try to catch the catcher. I’m not supposed to catch Joe. It’s Joe’s task to catch me” . So often in life when we are faced with more than we can handle, we struggle to find more strength on our own. We try to do things on our own power and makes things worse. All God is asking us to do is surrender to him, to allow him to catch us and hold us and comfort us and carry us. Have you done that? Remember: When you are faced with more than you can handle, you can rest in the reality that God can handle it. Sources and Bibliography: -Henri Nouwen, "The Only Necessary Thing" -C.S. Lewis, "Mere Christianity" -"Yes, God Will Give You More Than You Can Handle," Relevant Magazine -"9 Lies You Hear in Church," Rev. Mark Schaefer ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org Pasadena Community Church Bumper Sticker Theology ~ God Won’t Give You More Than You Can Handle? ~ 1st Corinthians 10:13 and Matthew 11:28-30 Sunday, July 12, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Today I continue our series called “Bumper Sticker Theology.” In this series we are taking a look at common platitudes of faith. Sometimes we see them on bumper stickers. Sometimes we hear them from well meaning family members or friends. And perhaps some of you may say these phrases to others. Quite often these popular phrases of faith are casually said without really thinking through what they mean. In fact, some folks think these phrases come straight from the Bible when they are nowhere to be found in scripture. So we are going to take a closer look at these popular phrases of faith and test them with scripture. My hope is that this series will encourage us to think deeper about our faith. I also hope it will help us think biblically about some of the popular theology in our culture. The truth is a lot of the popular clichés of faith that we hear are not biblical. But most clichés suffer from having the wrong home. People are surprised to find that at no time in the movie Casablanca does Rick ever say, “Play it again, Sam.” It is also surprising to know that in over 79 Star Trek episodes and 6 movies, no one ever actually says, “Beam me up, Scotty.” But quite often people make wrong assumptions about the sources of many clichés. It works the same with the Bible. There are all kinds of things that people assume the Bible says but it actually doesn’t. We are looking at a few in this series. Last week we looked at a popular one: “God helps those who help themselves.” Over 80% of Christians believe that quote is from the Bible. Well, it’s not. And if you want to learn why that phrase is untrue listen to last week’s message. Today we take a look at another faith cliché that many people think comes from the Bible: “God never gives you more than you can handle.” Well meaning folks often say this to others in the time of stress or suffering. Maybe someone has said this to you: “Don’t worry. God won’t give you more than you can handle.” In other words, “Everything will be alright. God wouldn’t have given you this trial if you couldn’t get through it.” I cringe when I hear people say that. I know people are trying to be helpful but it really sounds like a taunt, like we are not measuring up in life. Let’s be honest. When we hear that we feel less than because we think we should be able to handle our pain and suffering. “Something must be wrong with me. If I was a good Christian I would be able to handle this. Why can’t I handle it?” People intending to encourage us with this cliché really end up discouraging us. What’s worse is that this phrase can cause us to ignore our suffering and pain and believe that we can handle everything ourselves! And that’s just unhealthy and the opposite of what our faith teaches us. The bottom line is that the Bible never says that “God will never give you more than you can handle.” It’s not in there because it is not true. The truth is there will be times in life when you will feel like you can’t handle what life is throwing at you. That’s normal because we can’t make it on our own! Could you imagine saying to an inmate at Auschwitz, “Don’t worry; God never gives you more than you can handle”? Or what about a woman whose children are killed in a car accident or someone who has just been diagnosed with cancer or someone who is suffering from depression or an anxiety disorder? Like a friend of mine likes to say about this tired old phrase, “Those who have suffered nervous breakdowns didn’t get the memo that God never gives you more than you can handle.” So if this phrase does not come from the Bible then where does it come from? Well, I know some of you will be shocked to hear that more than likely this phrase comes from folks who have misunderstood the Bible and taken scripture out of context. People who use this phrase will often mistakenly point to a passage in 1st Corinthians: No temptation has seized you that isn’t common for people. But God is faithful. He won’t allow you to be tempted beyond your abilities. Instead, with the temptation, God will also supply a way out so that you will be able to endure it. -1st Corinthians 10:13 Paul is talking about temptation here, not suffering, pain, tragedy or burdens. He’s basically saying that we will never face a temptation we cannot resist. God will always give us strength to resist temptation. But that is a far cry from saying that we will never suffer a burden that we can’t handle on your own. In fact, the Bible tells us the exact opposite! The Bible tells us that we will suffer burdens in life that we can’t handle on our own. Take a look at something else Paul says in 2nd Corinthians: “Brothers and sisters, we don’t want you to be unaware of the troubles that we went through in Asia. We were weighed down with a load of suffering that was so far beyond our strength that we were afraid we might not survive.” -2 Corinthians 1:8 I don’t hear Paul saying, “God will never give you more than you can handle” in that verse, do you? Or what about these verses from the book of Psalms: “I’m worn out, completely crushed; I groan because of my miserable heart.” –Psalm 38:8 “My wrongdoings are stacked higher than my head; they are a weight that’s way too heavy for me.” –Psalm 38:4 Or what about what the angel had to say to the prophet Elijah: “Get up and eat, for the journey is too much for you.” -1 Kings 19:7 Throughout the Bible we find people who suffered burdens that were overwhelming and too much for them to handle on their own. This phrase is untrue, unbiblical and can be extremely cruel. In one online forum, another pastor was taking on this exact belief and challenging it as bad theology. In the comments section of that post was the following: I have been having a very hard time with that scripture and feeling like a failure as a Christian because I felt like I am not strong enough. I lost my sister to cancer and then my baby sister in a wreck and this June I lost my oldest child and everyone kept saying God would not put more on me than I could bear. Tonight I decided to start searching to see if it was scripture and I know that God led me to your page and it has helped to take away the guilt of feeling like a bad Christian because I am having such a hard time dealing with the loss of my child. It is cruel to tell those who suffer that “God will never give you more than you can handle.” All it does is compound their suffering with more suffering because the only conclusion they can make is that they are to blame. They think, “I must have done something wrong! Because if God would not give me this burden unless I could bear it, then it is my fault I am overwhelmed and hurt. I should be able to handle this!” So folks don’t ever say this to people. If you have said it, please stop saying it. And those of you who have been told this and your faith is broken because of it, please hear this: God did not give you your pain and suffering. God loves you and would never do that. I also want you to know that you are not supposed to handle life on your own. That’s why all of us need God. The problem with the phrase “God will never give you more than you can handle” is not only is it wrong theologically but it is a self centered statement. It’s all about what you can handle. And guess what? “It’s not about you!” It’s not about me! It’s not about us! This is the very point Paul makes in 2nd Corinthians and it is a critical point. In the passage I read earlier Paul talked about how they were weighted down with a load of sufferings that was so far beyond their strength that they were afraid they might not survive. Well, in the following verse Paul gives us the most important thing for us to remember when we are overwhelmed by burdens in life. Take a look: “It certainly seemed to us as if we had gotten the death penalty. This was so that we would have confidence in God, who raises the dead, instead of ourselves.” -2 Corinthians 1:9 Paul thought he was finished. Dead. Done. Gone. He knew he couldn’t handle the trials he was facing because it was beyond his strength. In the midst of being overwhelmed it occurred to him that he should have confidence in God and not in himself. So basically Paul is telling us that when we suffer in life it is not a test from God of how much we can bear. Instead, when we suffer we encounter God and learn to depend on Him. This is why the cross is so important, and not only an empty cross. Yes, an empty cross is important in reminding us of the resurrection but sometimes when we are overwhelmed by life we need to see a cross with Jesus suffering on it. We need to see a cross with our God in the flesh suffering from shame, pain, exhaustion, humiliation, and injustice. When we see a crucifix it reminds us that when we suffer, when we are in pain, when we are humiliated, when we are overwhelmed, we find God right in there with us, suffering with us. We have a God who is with us and who understands and who bears our suffering with us. So if you are suffering today God is there for you and he wants to help you carry your burdens and share your suffering and give you strength and power to get through it. Jesus gives us this invitation: “Come to me, all you who are struggling hard and carrying heavy loads, and I will give you rest. Put on my yoke, and learn from me. I’m gentle and humble. And you will find rest for yourselves. My yoke is easy to bear, and my burden is light.” –Matthew 11:28-30 We demonstrate our faith by admitting we can’t handle life on our own and trusting God to help us carry our burdens. C.S. Lewis said, “All genuine religious conversions are blessed defeats.” And by that he meant that we don’t truly have faith until we figure out that we can’t handle life by ourselves and realize that the only wise thing to do is to surrender our lives to God and his power and strength. Here is a verse of scripture that makes it real clear: Cast all your anxiety on him because he -1st cares for you. Peter 5:7 Today’s message comes down to this: When we are faced with more than we can handle, we can rest in the reality that God can handle it. So are you faced with more than you can handle today? Are you overwhelmed by life? Have you been trying to carry your burdens on your own or have you given it to God? Have you tried to “fake it until you make it” or have you surrendered it to God? Sometimes we find that God helps us carry our burdens and anxieties through his people, the body of Christ! That’s right. That’s one of the big reasons why we need the church, why we need each other. The church is not an individualistic enterprise. The church is not a community of self centered people. The church is the antithesis of that! The church should be a place where you can come and say, “I can’t handle life on my own strength and I need help!” The church should be a place where we are surrounded by a community of loving and merciful people who will bear our burdens with us. You see when someone who is suffering and overwhelmed by life comes to the church, we, as the church, are called to put flesh and bone on the person of Jesus and his promise to bear our burdens and help us carry the load. The church is living proof that God suffers with us and we can depend on him. Paul puts it this way: Carry each other’s burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ. –Galatians 6:2 The late great spiritual writer Henri Nouwen received the greatest revelation about faith at, of all places, the circus! Nouwen went to see the German trapeze group, “The Flying Rodleighs” perform. He was mesmerized by their breathtaking performance as they flew gracefully through the air. At the end of the show, he spoke with the leader of the troupe, Rodleigh himself. Nouwen asked him how he was able to perform with such grace and ease so high in the air. Rodleigh responded, “The public might think that I am the great star of the trapeze, but the real star is Joe, my catcher…The secret is that the flyer does nothing 