This is what Communion is all about. It is about receiving the grace of God in Christ when we cannot help or save ourselves. When we eat the bread we remember that Jesus says that we do not live by bread alone but by every word that comes from God. When we drink the juice we remember that it is Jesus’ sacrificial love that forgives us, set us free and gives us new life. So as you receive these elements today you are saying, “God, I cannot help myself. I need your grace and power to deliver me. Help me.” And God will. He is simply waiting for us to ask. Amen. I am grateful to Adam Hamilton and his message series “Half Truths.” It was helpful to me as I prepared this sermon. ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org Pasadena Community Church Bumper Sticker Theology ~ ~ God Helps Those Who Help Themselves? ~ ~ Psalm 10 Sunday, July 5, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Today I continue our series called “Bumper Sticker Theology.” In this series we are taking a look at common platitudes of faith. Sometimes we see them on bumper stickers. Sometimes we hear them from well meaning family members or friends. And perhaps some of you may say these phrases to others. But quite often these popular phrases of faith are casually said without really thinking through what they mean. In fact, some folks think these phrases come straight from the Bible when they are nowhere to be found in scripture. So we are going to take a closer look at these popular phrases of faith and test them with scripture. My hope is that this series will encourage us to think deeper about our faith. I also hope it will help us think biblically about some of the popular theology in our culture. Today we focus on this phrase. Let’s say it together: “God Helps Those Who Help Themselves.” How many of you have ever heard this phrase before? Most of us have. It’s been a popular phrase for generations. Jay Leno used to do “Jay Walks” where he would walk around the streets of New York and ask people questions. One time he asked folks to name just one of the Ten Commandments. So many people responded with “God helps those who help themselves.” Barna once did some research on the public’s knowledge of the Bible. The research concluded that around 81 percent of people interviewed thought the phrase “God helps those who help themselves” comes from the Bible. And 53 percent thought it was a major theme and message of scripture. Well, of course this phrase does not come from the Bible. It actually comes from Greek Mythology and many years later it was popularized by Benjamin Franklin in Poor Richard’s Almanac. The phrase is mostly untrue. I say mostly because there is an element of truth to it and I am going to tell you why. But there are more ways this phrase is untrue and therefore the use of this phrase is often misguided. And misusing this phrase is to misunderstand our faith and who we are as followers of Christ. But briefly let me tell you why sometimes this phrase is true. Sometimes it is true that God helps those who help themselves. For example, every week I pray that God would guide, empower and direct me as I prepare my sermons. And I believe he does. But after I pray and open my eyes my sermon does not miraculously appear! Believe me, there are some weeks when I wish it would! God does help and guide me when I prepare sermons but I hold some responsibility as well. God wants me to participate in the process. He wants to use me. I have to work and prepare. The sermon will not write itself! St. Augustine said, “Without God, we cannot. Without us, God will not.” When you pray before your meal, you thank God for providing the food but when you open your eyes you know the food did not just miraculously appear. You worked and got a paycheck and got the groceries and cooked the meal. If you are unemployed and sit home and pray that God would give you a job but do nothing you will be without a job for the rest of your life. You have to get on the computer, prepare your resume, prepare for interviews and do something. I remember a colleague talking about a couple he knew who were trying to sell their home. It was on the market for a very long time. They prayed and prayed it would sell but it never did. They even put a St. Joseph statue next to the “For Sale” sign to get it sold but that didn’t work. So they went to their pastor and asked him why it wasn’t selling. They said they prayed and prayed. Come to find out their real estate agent said they were trying to sell their house 10K over its value. The agent told them if they lowered their price it would sell. They refused. The pastor said, “So you are telling me you want a buyer to pay 10K over the value of the house and you are upset it is not selling?” They finally came to their senses and lowered it and the house sold in three days. Yes, sometimes it is true that God helps those who help themselves. The Apostle Paul addressed this issue plainly to the church in Thessalonica. They thought the Lord would return soon and some felt they didn’t have to do any work. To this Paul says: For even when we were with you, we gave you this command: Anyone unwilling to work should not eat. For we hear that some of you are living in idleness, mere busybodies, not doing any work. Now such persons we command and exhort in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly and to earn their own living. Brothers and sisters, do not be weary in doing what is right. -1st Thessalonians 3:10-13 But let me tell you how this phrase is wrong. In fact, I want to tell you two reasons why this phrase is untrue and misused. First of all, Sometimes People Can’t Help Themselves. I’ll give you an example. The phrase “God helps those who help themselves” is often used in the context of the homeless. I remember being in a car with some parishioners and we stopped at a light and saw a homeless man holding up a sign for food. There was some discussion and then the driver turned to me and said, “The Bible says, ‘God helps those who help themselves,’ right pastor?” I replied, “First of all, that phrase is not in the Bible. Second of all, it’s not always that simple.” A pastor I know once was approached by a homeless person who wanted money for food. He was “Mr. Fix it,” so he said, “I’ll take you to lunch and help you find a job.” They went to lunch and the pastor had a newspaper with job openings circled. After lunch he asked the homeless man, “Okay, what is your address and phone number so your future employer can contact you?” He replied, “I don’t have an address or phone. I’m homeless.” “Well, we will worry about that later. Let’s get your resume ready. What is your education?” He replied, “I dropped out of high school because my family needed me to work.” “Okay, what about references?” He replied, “Well, if I had references I wouldn’t be here!” It’s rather convenient to say God helps those who help themselves but the truth is sometimes people cannot help themselves. I can tell you in my ministry that I come across many people who are in a pit so dark and deep that they don’t know how to get out of it. They can’t help themselves – those in nursing homes who can’t feed or bathe themselves – helpless and vulnerable children who have nothing to eat – homeless people who are mentally ill and cannot afford the medication they need – orphans and widows left out in the cold – oppressed and abused women and children who need justice someone to be speak up for them – people receiving only minimum wage who cannot afford to get a place of their own because they cannot pay their first month’s rent up front. And guess what? God calls us to help the helpless and to give hope to the hopeless. God calls us to help the poor and needy and those who cannot help themselves. Take a look at what scripture says: “‘When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of your field when you reap, nor shall you gather any gleaning from your harvest. You shall leave them for the poor and for the stranger: I am the LORD your God.’” –Leviticus 23:22 Religion that is pure and undefiled before God, the Father, is this: to care for orphans and widows in their distress, and to keep oneself unstained by the world. –James 1:27 In the gospel of Luke we find the parable of the Good Samaritan and the Sheep and the Goats and in those parables we learn that ultimately God will judge our faith based upon how our faith moved us to compassion to help the poor, needy, wounded, and the beaten, broken and bruised. The book of Proverbs gives us insight as well: Whoever is kind to the poor lends to the LORD, and will be repaid in full. –Proverbs 19:17 If you close your ear to the cry of the poor, you will cry out and not be heard. –Proverbs 21:13 You see, God does help those who can’t help themselves and you want to know how he does it? By sending you and me. God moves our hearts to help others! On this fourth of July weekend we celebrate our freedom and our wonderful country. And a lot of people talk about this being a Christian nation or wanting it to be a Christian nation. Well, here is the honest gospel truth. If we want to be a Christian nation one of our top priorities should be to help the poor and needy because that is what the Bible calls us to do and, more specifically, what Jesus commands that we do. So as a nation unless we are willing to help the helpless and vulnerable we cannot call ourselves a Christian nation. Jesus says if anyone claims to be right with God but doesn't serve the poor, needy, oppressed, marginalized, sick, diseased, and sinful, then they do not have a relationship with God. No matter what they proclaim with their lips. No matter how religious they may appear. What does the LORD require of you but to do justice, and to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God? –Micah 6:8 I love that we as Pasadena take what the Lord requires of us seriously – using our kitchen not just to feed ourselves but to feed those in need at the Fisher House and through Pinellas Hope – using our gym not just for sports but to also run a food pantry that helps hundreds of families – offering a counseling center for people and having financial support available for those who can’t afford the counseling they need – having a mentor program Gulfport Elementary – offering support groups for those who suffer. The list goes on and on. Through PCC God is helping those who can’t help themselves! God helps us help others! Another big reason why the phrase “God helps those who help themselves” is wrong is because the gospel message is the exact opposite! God Saves Us When We Cannot Save Ourselves. The gospel message is that God saves and delivers us when we make a mess of our lives. God gives us hope when we are hopeless. Our God is a God of the hopeless and helpless. And let me tell you, without God and his grace, all of us are hopeless and helpless. I don’t care who you are, all of us have been or will get to a place in life when we need help and hope beyond ourselves. You know what grace is, right? It is receiving the blessings of God when we don’t deserve it? And how many of us have received God’s blessings when we haven’t deserved them? All of us have! I can’t tell you how many times in my life when I have been helpless and God pulled me up out of the pit. Sometimes he put people in my life to provide the things that I could not provide for myself. And sometimes God provided for me directly. Folks, the Lord helps and provides us with things that we could never obtain on our own – feeling a sense of love and belonging, having a purpose to our lives, receiving peace in the midst of a storm, getting hope when we fill hopeless. God meets those needs and more. We cannot. So yes, God helps us when we can’t help ourselves. And Hallelujah for that! In my distress I called to the LORD; I cried to my God for help. From his temple he heard my voice; my cry came before him, into his ears. –Psalm 18:6 I lift up my eyes to the hills—from where will my help come? My help comes from the LORD, who made heaven and earth. –Psalm 121:1-2 The truth is when others are helpless God helps us help them. And when we are helpless God helps others to help us. And, most of all, when we are helpless God hears our cries and loves and saves and delivers us directly by his grace. Only God can make us clean and whole. We can’t. Only God can. Today you may feel helpless. Maybe your marriage needs saving or you are in the clutches of addiction and need help beyond yourself. Perhaps you feel lost and without hope or feel ashamed and desire redemption. Just reach out to God. He can and will help you when you can’t help yourself. He can save you. He can make you whole. Just reach out to him and he will pick you up. 