think being a Christian is but I believe it is being the hands and feet of Christ in this word. “Following Jesus is about listening and doing. It is about putting into practice the things that Jesus taught. It is about a lifestyle of peace and justice” (FollowingJesus.org). It’s a way of being in the world that is marked by the sacrificial love that Jesus demonstrated for us. Following Jesus means remembering it is not power or violence or coercion or retaliation that will bring healing to this world; it is living a life empowered by Christ in service to Christ through sacrificial love. Jesus calls us to transform the world with his love. “He calls us to spend our lives in the service of the least, the lost and the lonely. Following Jesus means following him outside of the walls of a church because that’s where he is. It is found where people are hurting, where people are hungry, where people are oppressed, where people are denied justice, where people are dying” (FollowingJesus.org). So the key questions we must ask ourselves this Palm Sunday is “Am I an admirer of Jesus or a follower of Jesus? Am I fan or a follower? Am I only a worshipper of Jesus or am I a disciple of Jesus?” When Bishop Will Willimon was the minister at Duke Chapel he received a phone call from a very upset parent. The father was upset because his graduate school bound daughter had just told him she was going to ‘throw it all away’, as he put it, and go and do mission work in Haiti. ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org The father said, “This is up surd. She has a degree in mechanical engineering from Duke and she’s going to dig ditches Haiti. I hold you personally responsible for this.” Willimon replied, “Me? What have I done?” Father said, “Well, you filled her head with all that religious stuff. She thinks a lot of you. That’s why she’s doing this foolishness.” Willimon replied, “Now look, mister. Hold on. Didn’t you have her baptized as a kid? Didn’t you read her Bible stories and take her to Sunday school? Didn’t you let her go on all those youth retreats and ski trips?” The father said, “Well, yes...” Willimon said, “Then it’s your fault she believed all that stuff. Not mine. You’re the one that introduced her to Jesus, not me.” The father replied, “But we never expected it to come to this. We never dreamed she would go to Haiti. We just wanted her to grow up to be a good Methodist.” Let those who have ears to hear, hear. Amen. Pasadena Community Church WWWWWeeeeelllllcccccooooommmmme eeeettttthhhhhe eeeeKKKKKinininininggggg! !!!!Mark 11: 7 -11 Sunday, March 29, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor One of the most important things we learn from Palm Sunday and Holy Week is what it means to follow Jesus. Everyone has their own ideas about what it means to follow Jesus, some are good and some are bad. And many of us, as Christians, think we have a pretty good idea, but quite often we get it wrong. But the benefit of today and the rest of this week is that they make it very clear what it means to follow Jesus. So what I want to talk to you about today is what Palm Sunday and Holy Week teach us about following Jesus. Now, if you are not a Christian, and you are here because you are curious, I am glad you are here. You are always welcome here. I think today’s message will help you make some sense out of Jesus and what we believe he calls Christians to do. Because, unfortunately, the church does not always do the best job following Jesus and so it can get rather confusing. I hope today will clear things up for you. A lot of folks think following Jesus means telling people if they don’t believe in Jesus they are going to hell. That’s not following Jesus; that’s just being mean and acting as if you know the mind of God. That’s called idolatry. A lot of people think that following Jesus means you can only be affiliated with a particular political party. That’s not following Jesus; that’s obliterating the critical division between church and state. A lot of people think following Jesus means following rules and keeping your nose clean. That’s not following Jesus; that’s following religion. A lot of people think following Jesus means being self-righteous and judgmental. That’s not following Jesus; that’s just being hateful and annoying. And a lot of people think that following Jesus simply means giving your heart to him and keeping the rest of your life to yourself. That’s not following Jesus; that’s disappointing Jesus. You see, the trouble is that many folks who have been in the church all their lives and who have considered themselves Christians for a long time either have forgotten what it means to follow Jesus or never grasped it in the first place. Therefore, is it any wonder why our non-Christian neighbors and co-workers do not get excited when they see us carrying our Bibles or talking about church? Not only are they often confused about who Christians are but what they often see from Christians isn’t very attractive, fascinating or compelling. I felt this just the other night when I went to pick up dinner at a local restaurant. I had just finished teaching my Bible study and I was hungry. I didn’t feel like cooking; I felt like having a greasy hamburger! So I walked in the restaurant to pick up my meal. And in this particular restaurant you pick up your “to go” meal at the bar. I got there before my meal was ready, so I waited next to the bar for my meal. I struck up a conversation with a few people at the bar. We made some jokes and laughed. One person began talking about his job at a hospital. I said, “Oh, that’s a good hospital. I visit folks there from time to time.” “What do you do?” he asked. I replied, “Oh, I’m a minister…Pasadena Community Church.” Complete silence. Everyone within earshot began looking at the floor. The laughter stopped. The banter stopped. One man was brave enough to break the silence by saying, “If I went into a church I think the roof would fall down.” I said, “No it wouldn’t! The church is a hospital for sinners not a museum for saints. Pasadena is a warm and welcoming church. Our doors are open for you anytime.” He looked at me as if he didn’t believe me. Now, granted, a lot folks have their baggage about ministers and churches and Christians. But the question I have is “Why?” And why didn’t the man at the bar believe me? Because we have lost sight of what it means to follow Jesus. For if everyone who calls themselves Christian truly followed Jesus I believe churches would be filled with people who would want to know more about Jesus! We sometimes forget that the Christian faith initially grew and spread like wildfire not by coercion, but by fascination. People were so fascinated by these folks who were following Jesus they had to know more about the person they were following. Why were they so fascinated? What made them want to know more about Jesus followers and the person they were following? Well, we are going to find out today. Because what Jesus really calls his followers to do is so revolutionary and radical that if every Christian did it the whole world would be fascinated and drawn to Jesus Christ. But I will warn you. Truly following Jesus and doing what he calls us to do isn’t easy. In fact, sometimes it can get you into trouble. It can hurt you. It is not glamorous. It’s often messy. It will not win you any popularity contests. That’s why so many of us as Christians fall short. Following Jesus requires a great deal from each of us. But following Jesus is the most important and fulfilling thing you can do with your life because it means helping him transform this world. So what does it mean to follow Jesus? Well, just days preceding Jesus’ Triumphal Entry into Jerusalem he was very clear about what it means to be his follower. Let’s take a look: He then began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests and the teachers of the law, and that he must be killed and after three days rise again. He spoke plainly about this, and Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. –Mark 8:31-32 Now why did Peter rebuke Jesus? Because he along with many others wanted Jesus to be a militant messiah who would slay the wicked, take over Rome and lift up the truly righteous. When Jesus began talking about dying and defeat, Peter said, “This is crazy talk! Stop being down on yourself. You have the power of God on your side. You’re not going to die. With your power we will take down Rome and set things right. Justice will be served and your will be our king and we revel in the glory in your kingdom as your right hand men!” Jesus was not pleased. Here is his response to Peter: But when Jesus turned and looked at his disciples, he rebuked Peter. “Get behind me, Satan!” he said. “You do not have in mind the concerns of God, but merely human concerns.” – Mark 8:33 Whoa! Jesus said, “Peter, do you still not get it? Do the rest of you still not get it? Get your head in the game! Do you still not understand what I am about – what God sent me here to do and what I am calling you to do?” And I think Jesus would say that to the many of his followers today, “You are completely wrapped up in your own concerns. You think you are following me but you are not. You have forgotten the concerns of God!” What are the concerns of God? Jesus tells us: Then he called the crowd to him along with his disciples and said: “Whoever wants to be my disciple must deny themselves and take up their cross and follow me. For whoever wants to save their life will lose it, but whoever loses their life for me and for the gospel will save it.” –Mark 8:34-35 “Okay Jesus, we want to follow you. We want to be your disciples! What do you want us to do? We will do anything…… Huh? Deny myself? What? Take up a cross? Save my life and lose it? Lose my life and save it? Jesus, are you talking in riddles here? We don’t get it! We thought we were following you into a revolution, and we would reign with you in power! Now you’re telling us to be losers? What are you talking about?” The disciples still not get what it meant to be Jesus’ followers. They had been with him for quite awhile and still did not get it. Well, they continued traveling with Jesus and as he taught it finally began to sink in what was going to happen to him when he got to Jerusalem. He had to tell them three different times. But they still not understand their role as followers. In fact, just before they entered Jerusalem James and John asked Jesus the most ludicrous thing! It’s going to surprise you: Then James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to him. “Teacher,” they said, “we want you to do for us whatever we ask.” “What do you want me to do for you?” he asked. They replied, “Let one of us sit at your right and the other at your left in your glory.” “You don’t know what you are asking,” Jesus said. “Can you drink the cup I drink or be baptized with the baptism I am baptized with?” “We can,” they answered. –Mark 10:35-39 They still thought following Jesus was about what they could get – the benefits, the power, the glory, being recognized and honored. And how often are we guilty of the same thing? “I will follow you Jesus as long as you do what I ask you to do. I will follow you because I know it gets me into heaven. I will follow you so you can take care of my needs, fulfill my desires and make me successful.” However, Jesus speaks plainly to them and to us by explaining exactly what it means to follow him and where real life is found: “Whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant, and whoever wants to be first must be slave of all. For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.” –Mark 10:43-45 Translation from Jesus: “Okay, I’m going to spell it out for you. You want to be great in God’s eyes. You want to be great in the kingdom of heaven. You want to find real life and you want to know what real life is? Put others above yourself and serve them. Put the needs of others above your own. Give away every part of yourself to God and his people. Give up control and let God serve through you. Let go of what is most precious to you and replace it with love of God and love of others. Insist on being the last in line, give away your seat, and think of others before you think of yourself. Find the least, last and lost and help them. Are you ready to do that? Because that’s what it means to be my followers.” And in just a few days Jesus would demonstrate the most profound expression of putting others above himself. It was a selfless act of love that transformed the world. So what do we learn from all of this? What does it mean to follow Jesus? Following Jesus means living a life of sacrificial love. It means experiencing God’s love and expressing that love sacrificially in the world. You see, folks it is only by understanding the sacrificial love of Christ that we can understand what Palm Sunday really means and the profound impact of Jesus’ triumphal entry. Let’s look at the story again: When they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks over it, he sat on it. Many people spread their cloaks on the road, while others spread branches they had cut in the fields. Those who went ahead and those who followed shouted, “Hosanna! ” “Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!” “Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David!” “Hosanna in the highest heaven!” Church tradition calls this Jesus’ triumphal entry but it was the exact opposite. Many scholars believe that Jesus’ entry into Jerusalem was a form of protest against the power and violence of Rome. In fact, it is believed by some scholars that Pontius Pilate entered Jerusalem on the same day with great pomp and circumstance and shouts of praise. He was there to Lord his power over the people during Passover so they would not get any ideas. He would have come in on a Stallion as if to say, “I come in power! I come in power!” That’s what many wanted Jesus to do. But instead Jesus made a satire out of it. He protested it by coming in on a donkey as if to say, “I do not come in power. I do not come to force or coerce. I come in love. I come in mercy. I come to show that the only power that will transform this world is the transforming power of God’s sacrificial love.” Of course, most of the crowd who praised Jesus that day didn’t really have a clue what Jesus was about to do. Take a look at what occurred after the parade: Jesus entered Jerusalem and went into the temple courts. He looked around at everything, but since it was already late, he went out to Bethany with the Twelve. –Mark 11:7-11 Now that’s anticlimactic, isn’t it? They just held this great parade Jesus and he didn’t address them. Didn’t thank them. Didn’t teach them. Didn’t entertain them or perform miracles for them. He simply left the crowd, spent some time in the Temple praying and thinking about what he had to do and then left. Why didn’t he do anything? Why didn’t he acknowledge the crowd? Because he knew that most of the crowd that day wasn’t really prepared to do what he was calling them to do. He knew that in just a few days many of them would be yelling “Crucify Him!” That crowd should cause us to take a hard look at our hearts. You see, we can believe in Jesus and shout Hosanna. We can worship and adore Jesus. We can praise his name. We can invite him into our hearts and accept him as our Lord and Savior. We can do all that and still not be willing to follow him. We can believe that Jesus is the Son of God and still live selfish lives, ignore the cries of the least, last and lost and demonstrate hatred toward people of other races, cultures, or even those who have different political views than us. You see, it is critical that we receive Christ as Lord and Savior and develop a personal relationship with him. It is critical that we get rooted in a local church. But these things are food for the journey. They provide nourishment to us as we serve Christ in the world. Yes we are saved by Christ, but we are saved for something. And that something is to be his hands and feet in the world. I don’t know what you 