can experience God’s justifying grace right now. All you have to do is call out to Christ and ask for it. Paul said in Romans, “Whoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.” Call out, “Lord, I turn away from my sin and the things that are dragging me down and I surrender to your love and grace. Cleanse me, renew me, and give me new life, I will follow you.” Of course, God’s grace does not stop there. Fortunately, once we make the decision to surrender to God’s grace and follow Christ, we are supported, strengthened, encouraged, and nourished by the Sanctifying Grace of God. His Spirit inside of us motivates us to grow closer to the likeness of Christ and love one another as God has loved us. In other words, the grace of God is a gift and a calling. God brings transformation to us and then by God’s sanctifying grace he calls us to help him bring transformation to the world. We receive the grace of God and then we channel it out. Paul describes God’s sanctifying grace in Philippians: In all my prayers for all of you, I always pray with joy because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now, being confident of this, that he who began a good work in you will carry it on to completion until the day of Christ Jesus. –Philippians 1:4-6 Therefore, my dear friends, as you have always obeyed -not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence -continue to work out your salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you to will and to act in order to fulfill his good purpose. –Philippians 2:12-13 The experience of God’s grace initiates a journey of transformation in ourselves and the world. We grow individually and we grow in our relationships. A relationship with God is a process of renewal. It is not just that we experience God’s ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org grace and say, “That’s wonderful.” It is just the beginning. God’s grace invites our participation. The sanctifying grace of God involves a synergy of God’s power and our participation. We get to cooperate with God in helping bring transformation to the world! We are on a journey together to spread God’s transforming love to the whole world. I want to close by showing you a picture of what is known as “Pando.” It is also known the “Trembling Giant.” Pando is located in Aspen, Colorado and is known as one of the wonders of the natural world. Why? It is a collection of 43,000 trees covering about 106 acres. It’s about 80,000 years old. Why is it a wonder of the natural world? Because it is one organism. You see, all the trees share the same root system. “Pando” in Latin means “to spread.” And this organism as one root system has been spreading for thousands of years. Folks, this world has the same root system. It is the grace and love of God. God created this world. God sustains this world. God created you and God created me. God created all of us. The love of God is in everyone and for everyone. The problem is not everyone in the world is rooted in the grace of God. If it were, the Kingdom would be here. The world would be a perfect place. There would be no death, no brokenness, no sin, and everything would be nourished, sustained, supported and strengthened by the grace of God. One day that will happen. Our job as followers of Christ and the church is to spread our roots of love out to the world so that everyone can be rooted in the same loving and gracious God that created this world – so that everyone can experience that transforming love. And when that happens, “Every will knee shall bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord!” Amen. Pasadena Community Church JJJJJooooouuuuurrrrrnnnnneeeeey yyyyTTTTThhhhhrrrrrooooouuuuugggggh hhhhttttthhhhhe eeeeBBBBBiiiiibbbbbllllle eeee~ The Epistles Sunday, March 15, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor As I was thinking about this message this week I sensed God leading me in a particular direction. Through various events, conversations and circumstances I believe God was directing me to lift up a specific message. Now, I believe the Holy Spirit is always guiding me when I prepare and deliver messages but I sensed God’s Spirit in a special way this week. So as we continue in our message series, “Journey Through the Bible,” I’d like to lift up the message I feel led to share. And, not surprisingly, the message is heard loud and clear in the next section of the New Testament we are focusing on today, the Epistles (or letters). I don’t think that is a coincidence. As we say, it is a “God-incident.” The Epistles make up most of the New Testament. In fact, 21 of the 27 books in the New Testament are letters from the Apostles. These are letters written to early Christian churches about understanding and living out the Christian faith. I am so glad they are in the New Testament because they help make the gospel of Jesus Christ concrete and practical for everyday living. They put legs to the gospel. Each letter was written to a specific church with a specific need. The Apostle Paul wrote most of these letters because he established many of the first Christian churches. A church would have a conflict, a need, a question, or an issue and write to Paul about it and Paul would write back offering advice, wisdom, instruction, and encouragement. Some of you may be wondering who Paul is. Well, Paul was a Jewish Pharisee who initially sought to suppress the Christian movement. However he was converted to Christ and became his greatest evangelist. He took the gospel across the Roman Empire, establishing churches everywhere he went. So what does all of this have to do with the message that God has put on my heart this week? Well, at the very heart of Paul’s letters is the message that God has put on my heart. And, to be honest, if there was only one message about the Christian faith I would want you to hear it is the message I am going to give to you today. If you are new here and just curious about the Christian faith, this is an ideal message for you on what Christianity is all about. If you have been a Christian a long time, this message will remind you on why you became a Christian in the first place. Sometimes we forget that and when we forget that we can become lost. This message will bring you back home. And if you are someone who has ever wanted to know the contribution John Wesley and the United Methodist Church has made to the church and the Christian faith, this message will help you understand some of that that as well. The message on my heart and the message at the heart of Paul’s letters is critical to a vital understanding and experience of God. However, the mistake I often make and many ministers make is assuming everyone knows and understands this message. But making that assumption is a huge mistake because today’s message I believe is the cornerstone of our faith and the anchor that supports it. If we miss it, we miss everything. What is this important message? It is four words. These four words are referred to 127 times in the New Testament and 89 times in the letters of Paul. It is The Grace of God. Paul was so impacted by the grace of God that he lifts it up at the beginning of every one of his letters we find in the New Testament. The grace of God was that important to him and should be that important to us. The grace of God was the best Paul could wish his churches because the grace of God was the best thing he ever received and experienced. And I can tell you today the grace of God is the best thing I have ever received or experienced too! So what is the grace of God? Why is it so important? Well, the grace of God is the transforming influence of God’s love that is present and active in our lives. It is a love that unconditionally pardons and forgives us and it is a love that transforms us into vessels of God’s love in the world. Here are key passages of scripture from two of Paul’s letters that underscore the power and significance of God’s grace: Therefore, since we have been justified through faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have gained access by faith into this grace in which we now stand. –Romans 5:1-2 For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith—and this is not from yourselves, it is the gift of God— not by works, so that no one can boast. –Ephesians 2:8-9 What do these verses mean? Get this. This is important. God’s grace, his forgiving and transforming love, is a gift from God. You can’t earn it. You can’t buy it. You can’t work for it. And there is nothing you can do to obtain it. The only thing there is to do is receive it! Have faith in it and surrender to it. It is a gift. There is nothing you can do to make God love you less and there is nothing you can do to make God love you more. That’s the good news. That’s the gospel. That’s the message Jesus brought and embodied through his life, death and resurrection. God’s love for you is relentless and boundless. This is so important because, believe it or not, one of the things I run into all the time among people in the church, even people who have been in the church a long time, is that they think they can earn God’s love, they can work for it, they can buy or earn their way into heaven. They think that if they are a good person then God will love them and accept them. Folks, this is false. God’s grace is a gift. All we can do is receive it and experience it. That is the gospel folks! God loves you no matter what you have done and he forgives you of your sins. His grace can heal you and make you whole. Receive it and be transformed by him. Now God’s grace is not cheap grace. We just don’t receive it and keep on living destructive lives. God’s grace loves and forgives us where we are but his grace does not keep us where we are. His grace empowers us to live the lives he has called us to do live. So how do we experience God’s grace? How does it work? Well, this is when the wisdom of John Wesley comes in. One day I will preach a sermon on John Wesley, who founded the Methodist Church. His intention was not to create a new denomination. He simply sought to reform and revive the Church of England in the 1700’s. But through Wesley’s inspired efforts the Methodist Church was born. His influence on the church and faith is powerful. One of his significant contributions to our faith was the way he explained how the grace of God works. His understanding of God’s grace is at the heart of the United Methodist Church. Wesley said that God initially makes his love and presence known to us through Prevenient Grace. “Pre,” meaning “before.” Basically this means that through God’s grace he initiates his transforming love into our lives. He presents it. He makes it known to us. He takes the first step. You could call it “Initiating Grace” or “Enabling Grace.” We have the free will to accept or reject it, but he presents it to us, makes it known to us. Jesus exemplified God’s prevenient grace by coming to this earth. God took that first step and came down to earth to seek and save the lost, to find the lost sheep, to find the lost coin, to draw the prodigal son back home. Jesus said he would draw all people to himself. That’s prevenient grace – God pulling and tugging on our hearts to turn away from sin, and turn to his love, grace and forgiveness, to give him our brokenness and have him make us whole. Look at how the Epistles describe the prevenient grace of God: …God’s kindness is intended to lead you to repentance. –Romans 2:4 For the grace of God has been revealed, bringing salvation to all people. –Titus 2:11 We love because he first loved us. -1st John 4:19 You see, prevenient grace reminds us that God made the first move. We were his idea. He created us. He came down to earth. He died for us. He rose again for us. He seeks us. We are always responding to God’s gracious and loving promptings. Francis Thompson described God’s prevenient grace when he called God the “Hound of Heaven.” Infant Baptism is a wonderful expression of God’s prevenient grace. Many people wonder about why we baptize infants. I get that question a lot. Yes, the baby is clueless. Yes, the baby doesn’t have any idea what is going on, and that’s the point. God is saying to the child, “I love you. You were my idea. I created you. I formed you. And I give you my love and grace. It is your gift. When you get old enough, you can decide to receive it. I hope you will. I will be trying to influence you to receive it, but it will be your decision.” So many of us think that when we made the decision to follow Christ that we made the decision on our own. The truth is God did not force us but he did influence us. Those of you who are Christians know this. Just think about the people and events that led to your decision to follow Christ and you will see the hand of God at every turn. That was God’s prevenient, initiating and enabling grace at work! Maybe there are some of you here who are curious about the faith. You would not consider yourself a Christian but there is something inside of you that yearns to be in worship here. There is a voice inside of you that motivated you to come to worship today. There is something inside of you that wants to turn away from the things in life that don’t satisfy and be loved by a transforming love. You had several choices this morning, but you chose to be here. I believe that is God’s prevenient grace. Jesus said, “I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door I will come in.” Do you hear that knocking today? Just this week I spoke with a person I know pretty well who is hearing that knocking. In every conversation I had with this person in that past she expressed disdain for the church and her lack of belief in God. She has had a lot of pain in her life so you can understand her attitude. I ran into her recently and I almost collapsed when I heard what she told me. She said she had just experienced a miracle. It involved her finding an item she had lost. She said, “I know only God could have done this.” I couldn’t believe my ears! She said, “When it happened, there was a voice inside of me that said, ‘See, I do exist. Believe in me.” Then she said, “I think I may go to church.” I replied, “I know a good one!” Folks, that’s God’s prevenient grace at work. Of course, God’s prevenient grace leads to something even more important, which I hope will be the case for the person I just mentioned: God’s justifying grace. God’s justifying grace is what many know as “conversion” or being “born again.” God’s justifying grace comes upon us when we turn away from sin and accept God’s gift of grace. When we do we are justified by God. What does that mean? When we choose to surrender to God’s grace, his transforming love forgives us and cleanses us of sin. His transforming love awakens the Spirit of God opens inside of us and gives us new life now and life eternal. We are transformed by God’s grace. We are healed, renewed and redeemed by God’s grace. God’s grace enables us to be vessels of his transforming love in the world. Here is the way some of the Epistles describe it. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and all are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus. –Romans 3:23-24 But when the kindness and love of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of righteous things we had done, but because of his mercy. He saved us through the washing of rebirth and renewal by the Holy Spirit. –Titus 3:4-5 Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, the new creation has come: The old has gone, the new is here! -2nd Corinthians 5:17 The experience of justifying grace is that moment when the prodigal son comes to himself runs home to his father and the father runs to him and throw his arms around his son. It is that moment when you were blind to the truth and then by some gift beyond yourself you see the truth and receive it. It is that event when you finally let go of all the baggage and weight and sin in your life that is dragging you down and realize that you can’t do life on your own, that you need help, you need a Savior, you need a power greater than you give yourself to that power. It is that moment when you come to the place where you see that the promises of the world are empty and the only way you will be satisfied is by living the life of Christ and having him guide your life. It is coming to the place in your life when you finally realize that only the transforming love and grace of God will heal you of all your pain, sin, brokenness, and sadness. And you finally yield to that grace. Some people experience justifying grace in a dramatic way like Paul on the Damascus Road. For others it is a quiet but profound moment like John Wesley when his heart was “strangely warmed.” Still, for some, it is not a moment but rather an evolution of sorts. They grew up in the church and one day they just knew they had experienced that justifying grace. It is just part of who they are. If you are someone in worship today and you have never experienced God’s justifying grace, you can today. Perhaps the prevenient grace of God has led you here and you feel ready to embrace that grace and have it embrace you. Perhaps you have been in church your whole life and you never knew that this was what the grace of God was all about. Well, you 