reminding us to pray that the Lord would provide. And he did! We ended the year in the black and we are going strong this year! Now we have a Capital Campaign going on and we need your help. We have about half the money pledged, over 700K. Now we need the other half to make our goal. This church needs new seats. This church needs to be maintained. This church needs campus improvements. In order for Pasadena to be a vital church in the future, we need to make improvements now. In order for the children in our church to have a vital church when they are adults and have children we need to spend the money on these improvements. I want people to be proud of this campus in the future. I don’t want the Trustees getting worn out and the church budget being drained because of deferred maintenance. The church hasn’t had a Capital Campaign in over ten years. It’s high time we get moving and take responsibility for our church. And the first thing I ask you to do is to pray. Pray to God to provide and then pray and ask the Lord to guide you in what you should give. I also ask that you pray for our church on a regular basis and then listen to what God is calling you to do. This sermon may seem like I am disappointed in what we are doing as a church. On the contrary! I love this church! We are one of the vital congregations in our conference. We are doing a lot of wonderful things and we are doing them well! I am proud of this church. We get it! But I think we could be doing so much more! And all we have to do is get on our knees and ask the same Spirit that empowered the explosion of the early church to empower us to do the will of God in our community. ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org One day God will hold us accountable: “Why didn’t you take care of the needy among you? Why didn’t you make more disciples? Why didn’t you serve the least, last and lost among you? Why didn’t you serve more in the community? Why didn’t you take advantage of opportunities to love and to do justice and to give mercy?” We may respond, “But, that is impossible! How in the heck could we be responsible for so much? How could we do all that?” And our Lord will respond, “It was all available to you. All you had to do was ask and it would have been given to you. All you had to do was seek and you would have found. All you had to do was knock and the door would have been opened to you.” All of heaven is available to us. Imagine what we could if we prayed to have it. Imagine if we lived and served God with great expectations. Acts teaches us that membership in the church has its responsibilities. The church is not about you or me. The church is not about your agenda or my agenda. The church is about following Christ into the world and making disciples, healing those who suffer, mending the broken, serving the hungry and transforming the world by the grace of God. Once we start taking those responsibilities seriously we will start seeing the power of Christ do amazing things through us. Amen. Pasadena Community Church JJJJJooooouuuuurrrrrnnnnneeeeey yyyyTTTTThhhhhrrrrrooooouuuuugggggh hhhhttttthhhhhe eeeeBBBBBiiiiibbbbbllllle eeee~ The Acts of the Apostles Sunday, March 8, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Today we continue our series “Journey Through the Bible.” For the last several weeks we have been taking a tour through the entire Bible, highlighting its main themes. We are now in the New Testament. Last week we focused on the four gospels and learned in Matthew that Jesus is the fulfillment of the Old Testament. In Mark, Jesus is the crucified God. In Luke, Jesus seeks and saves the lost. In John, Jesus Christ gives life to those who believe. Today we focus on the powerful story of the beginning of the early church – the profound ripple effect of Jesus upon the church. And we find this story in the fifth book of the New Testament, The Acts of the Apostles. The book of Acts was written by the author of the gospel of Luke. Think of Acts as “Luke, Part Two, and the Acts of the Apostles! I told you about the power of Jesus. Now hear the story of how the power and spirit of Christ empowered the church to change the world.” The first chapter deals with Jesus’ resurrection and ascension. The second chapter is about the day of Pentecost when the Holy Spirit came upon the church and empowered it for ministry. The rest of the book tells the profound story of how the church of Jesus Christ began to transform the world with the gospel. It highlights the ministry of the Apostles Peter and Paul and their influence on the early church. The major theme of the book of Acts is the work of the Holy Spirit through the church in spreading the gospel from the Jews centered in Jerusalem to the Gentiles throughout the Roman Empire. In chapter after chapter you find the Apostles and the church teaching, preaching and healing and bringing thousands to Christ. You find the church doing amazing and wondrous things in the name of Christ. It’s inspiring! In fact, as Jesus ascended to heaven, he said these words to his disciples: “But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you; and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.” –Acts 1:8 What follows in Acts is the epic story of how that happened. But the question I want to focus on today is how did it happen? How did the early church find that power of Christ? How did Peter, Paul, and the early church do all the amazing things that they did? How were they able to heal and grow and transform civilization with the gospel? These are questions that I ask. And I know it is a question that many Christians ask! We read Acts and get inspired by what the early church did and then we think: Wait a second! The same power that was available to them is available to us! The same spirit that empowered them is available to us! Why can’t the church today have that same influence and power? Why can’t we continue to transform the world like the early church? If we have that same spirit and power then why is the mainline church dying? If we have that same spirit and power then why do we feel like just a nonprofit most of the time? The answer to that question is simple but difficult for many people to hear. But I’m going to tell you the answer because I think this church can handle it. Now those of you who are visiting today and are new to the church, you’re off the hook with what I am about to say. I am glad you are here and I hope you come back. I also hope you find this church to be the kind of church you want to be a part of. I love this church and I believe you will love it too. But I need to speak to those folks here who have committed themselves to this church. The reason why the early church was filled with such power and was able to do the amazing things it was able to do was because the disciples and the early church felt the burden of responsibility as followers of Christ. They knew that Christ was holding them responsible for spreading the gospel and changing the world. Yep, it is that simple. The problem with much of the church today is that it is not convicted by that sense of responsibility from Christ. In fact, much of the church today sees membership in a church like the promise of having an American Express Card, “Membership has its Privileges.” For many folks who join the church it is about the privileges they will receive -salvation, fellowship with nice people, Bible studies and messages that feed them, programs and dinners that satisfy their families.” And folks there is nothing wrong with any of those things. Certainly, those things come with joining a church. But being a member of the church of Jesus Christ is not about receiving privileges; it is about accepting the responsibility that comes with following Jesus Christ. If you join a church just for you can get out of it, you are joining for the wrong reasons. I have a friend who is a District Superintendent. A D.S. is someone who oversees and supervises a district of churches. We got to talking one day about her job as a D.S. She said that 80 percent of her job is dealing with churches in conflict. She was exasperated and said, “We have forgotten the mission and purpose of the church! So many people in the church think it is about them, about what they want!” No wonder our denomination is dying. The moment churches care more about their own needs than the needs of the world is the moment those churches begin to die. It would be a good idea for this church and any church, when in conflict, to ask “What does this have to do with making disciples, with bringing help and hope to the world…with reaching the least, the last and the lost?” If the conflict is not relevant to serving Jesus, it is a waste of the church’s precious time. Now, the good news is that our church understands our mission and does a great job living it out, but I’m preaching this message because it is so easy to forget! In this consumer culture we live in it is so easy to turn the church into a religious Wal-Mart, catering to everyone’s whims and fancies. It is so easy to become a church with Burger King theology, “Have it your way!” instead of living it out the way of Christ in the world – dying to self, serving, giving up control, loving our enemies, giving sacrificially, and making disciples.” The early church we see in Acts saw only their responsibility as followers of Christ, nothing else. Folks, membership in the church has it responsibilities. Our vision statement says, “Serve Christ by serving others and sharing your witness.” How are you doing with that? When you joined this church, you took a vow to support Christ and his church with your prayers, presence, gifts, service and witness. Membership has its responsibilities. I want to lift up our first responsibility on the list – Prayer. There is a reason it is lifted first because prayer is the cornerstone to the life of a Christian and the life of the church. We see this all over the book of Acts. The power of prayer is mentioned 32 times in Acts! You want to know how and why the early church served with such power? Because they were always praying for God to give them that power! Take a look at what happened just before the Holy Spirit came upon the church at Pentecost. We think it just happened. No, look at what preceded it: They all joined together constantly in prayer, along with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers. –Acts 1:14 Then Peter got up to preach the gospel and the Holy Spirit came upon the church. They prayed and it happened! 3,000 people came to Christ that day! Later we find Peter and John healed a man and were arrested and were brought before religious leaders. They asked, “By what power did you heal this man?!” Peter and John told them it was by the power of Jesus. Well, they eventually let them go because a mob of people were praising God for what they had done! And when they got back together with the church, what did they do? They prayed: “Now, Lord, enable your servants to speak your word with great boldness. Stretch out your hand to heal and perform signs and wonders through the name of your holy servant Jesus.” After they prayed, the place where they were meeting was shaken. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God boldly. –Acts 4:29-31 Later in Acts Peter was arrested by King Herod. Herod could not stand the church and wanted to persecute Peter badly. So he threw him into prison and Herod appointed 16 soldiers to guard Peter! When the church found out about it, what did they do? They prayed! Look at what happened: So Peter was kept in prison, but the church was earnestly praying to God for him. The night before Herod was to bring him to trial, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains, and sentries stood guard at the entrance. Suddenly an angel of the Lord appeared and a light shone in the cell. He struck Peter on the side and woke him up. “Quick, get up!” he said, and the chains fell off Peter’s wrists. Then the angel said to him, “Put on your clothes and sandals.” And Peter did so. “Wrap your cloak around you and follow me,” the angel told him. Peter followed him out of the prison, but he had no idea that what the angel was doing was really happening; he thought he was seeing a vision. They passed the first and second guards and came to the iron gate leading to the city. It opened for them by itself, and they went through it. When they had walked the length of one street, suddenly the angel left him. –Acts 12:5-10 Here is one more when Peter was called to the bed side of Tabitha, a faithful lady who had died. Look at what the power of prayer did in this story: Peter went with them, and when he arrived he was taken upstairs to the room. All the widows stood around him, crying … Peter sent them all out of the room; then he got down on his knees and prayed. Turning toward the dead woman, he said, “Tabitha, get up.” She opened her eyes, and seeing Peter she sat up. He took her by the hand and helped her to her feet. Then he called for the believers, especially the widows, and presented her to them alive. This became known all over Joppa, and many people believed in the Lord. -Acts 9:39-42 You may say, “Come on! Really? That didn’t really happen.” Well, have you ever really prayed for God to give you the power and resources to serve him? I don’t know anyone who has prayed to God for the power to do his will in the world who has ever been disappointed. There is an old saying, “The devil laughs at our intellect, yawns at our spirituality, doesn’t worry about our efforts, but trembles when we pray.” Folks, there is power in prayer. Prayer is the cornerstone to our faith and the cornerstone to a vital church. Why? Because prayer is all about our relationship with Christ, connecting to his Spirit, drawing on his power, being guided by his wisdom! Prayer is essential, and everything powerful we do as individual Christians and the church always begins and ends with prayer. This is why our very first responsibility as members of the church is to pray. The church in Cuba is experiencing great revival. It looks a lot more like the church in Acts than the church in America does. And, of course, we are falling over ourselves trying to duplicate what they are doing. I have been in meetings where folks were trying to figure out their strategy. What is their secret? In one of these meetings, Aldo Martin, a Cuban minister in our conference, said, “You want to know why the church in Cuba is on fire? It is because the church in Cuba has been praying for revival for years!” It began with prayer. It is the same way with the church in Africa! They are on fire too and experiencing great revival. A friend of mine, Allen Johnson, serves a church in Ocala. In his church he has a missionary who serves in Africa. Allen asked him one day why the church is exploding in Africa. He replied, “We get up and pray every day, ‘Lord, what do you want me to do and how do you want me to do it?’” Frazier Memorial United Methodist Church in Montgomery, Alabama was once one of the fastest growing Protestant churches in America. It had around 10,000 members and tons of ministries. They gave over 50 percent of their budget to mission work! Imagine having a budget like that! You want to know how that tremendous growth got started. They first built a prayer chapel in the middle of the church campus and they prayed God would bless the church. And God did! It all started with prayer! Several years ago St. James United Methodist Church in Tampa acquired a big piece of property. They relocated their church and made plans to build a new sanctuary. They needed one million dollars to do it. At the time a million dollars could build a sanctuary. So, what did they do? Did they start by putting together a slick fund raising campaign? No, the pastor at the time called a special council meeting and said, “I have called you here because we need a million dollars and I want us to spend some time in prayer to God.” The next Sunday instead of preaching his sermon, he said, “We need a million dollars and I want us to use this time to be in prayer before the Lord.” Guess what? They got the money and built the sanctuary. At the end of last year, we were behind in our budget. We were wringing our hands trying to get through without making cuts and compromising ministries. Andrea Henning, a saint in our church, showed up with little sticky notes for each of us, 