There was Pol Pot in Cambodia, and at least forty beasts in Africa since the end of colonialism, including people like Idi Amin. In the Middle East there have been Gaddafi, Saddam Hussein, Hosni Mubarak, and Bashar al-Assad. Many of these leaders had giant statues erected of themselves and plastered pictures of these leaders were found on the sides of buildings. What we read in Revelation about Rome has been repeated throughout history. “In the United States, we’ve built in some safeguards to present a lot of this—representative democracy. But, if we are honest there is still a tension we feel at times between the values of God and the values of our country. They are not always the same you know. Our form of government, our political parties, our economic system are all at odds sometimes with God’s kingdom. And sometimes when push comes to shove, Christians will choose civil religion rather than the Kingdom of God” (“Making Sense of the Bible”). Of course on a more personal level the gods of money, sex and power always have the potential to destroy us. And we need to remember all of that leads to emptiness and only God can bring wholeness and satisfaction. In the end it is God who triumphs over all. So the real point of Revelation: Revelation does not tell us when and how the end will happen; it tells us that in the end none of our gods will be left standing. Only God Almighty will be triumphant. The gods of politics, nations, war, terror, evil and violence will be forever destroyed by God almighty. ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org I remember being at a friend’s house to have dinner and watch a movie. Their kids brought home a movie from the video store that I had already seen. But they were so excited about seeing it I acted as if I had never seen it. It was a great drama that had a great ending. The movie unfolded and the intensity built. They were all on the edge of their seats. I gave away my hand. I was relaxed on the couch grinning. When they saw me, they paused the movie and asked, “Charley, have you seen this?!” I said, “Yes, I am sorry. I know how it is going to end.” As Christians in difficult times, we can go about our lives with a grin because we have read the back of the book and we know how it is going to end. So, if someone asks you today, “Well, what did you learn about the book of Revelation?” just say, “Simple really. God wins so stay on the side of God.” Amen. I am grateful for Adam Hamilton’s book “Making Sense of the Bible.” It was a helpful resource for me as I prepared this sermon. Pasadena Community Church JJJJJooooouuuuurrrrrnnnnneeeeey yyyyTTTTThhhhhrrrrrooooouuuuugggggh hhhhttttthhhhhe eeeeBBBBBiiiiibbbbbllllle eeee~ Revelation Sunday, March 22, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Today we end our journey through the Bible. For the last ten weeks we have taken a tour of the entire Bible looking at its major themes and characters. I hope this series has been helpful and inspiring to you. I also hope it has motivated you to read and study the Bible on your own and be transformed by it. We conclude our series, of course, with what is probably the most confusing book in the Bible – the book of Revelation. When we read it we feel like we have entered a strange and mysterious world. It is filled with weird images and symbols that confound us and sometimes scare us. As a result, many people just avoid it altogether. For some folks there is a big “Keep Out” sign on the last book of the Bible. I must admit when I was a younger Christian I did not read the book of Revelation very much. It didn’t make much sense to me. And I didn’t hear many sermons on the book either. I remember asking my minister at the time why I never heard any sermons on the book of Revelation. He said, “People read and interpret the book in so many different ways that I feel I am better off just leaving it alone. Charley, when you preach on Revelation you either offend people or scare people.” Perhaps you can understand that. You turn on the TV and hear a preacher say terrifying things about the book and it doesn’t sit very well with you. You watch movies about the end of the world that quote Revelation and you are not sure what to think. You see documentaries making claims that Revelation contains a secret code and you wonder, “Why should the book keep a secret?” Maybe you dare enough to read some of Revelation and you see heads of beasts and numbers and battles and peculiar characters staring back at you and it feels more like a nightmare than scripture. Perhaps you are a Christian and a bit embarrassed by the book and you don’t know what to say to your non-Christian friends when they ask, “What is Revelation about anyway?” Well, folks take heart. The book of Revelation is every easy to understand and it has a very hopeful message. For the next few minutes you are going to learn how easy the book is to understand. I also believe you will be encouraged by the inspired message it has for all of us. When you leave worship today you will understand what Revelation is all about and you will be able to tell others the book’s message in just two words. In order to understand any book of the Bible you must first ask these questions: Who wrote the book, to whom was it written and why was it written? Makes sense, right? Well, it is amazing how easy it to understand the books of the Bible once you know the answer to those three questions. And the book of Revelation is no different. When you know who wrote Revelation, to whom it was written and why it was written, the book is no longer confusing or intimidating. And, what’s great is that we find the answer to all three of those questions in the very first chapter of the book! Take a look: John, To the seven churches in the province of Asia: Grace and peace to you from him who is, and who was, and who is to come, and from the seven spirits before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. I, John, your brother and companion in the suffering and kingdom and patient endurance that are ours in Jesus, was on the island of Patmos because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus. On the Lord’s Day I was in the Spirit, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet, which said: “Write on a scroll what you see and send it to the seven churches: to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia and Laodicea.” –Revelation 1:4-5, 9-11 So what do these verses tell us? The book of Revelation was written by a guy named John. It was not the Apostle John, but a prophet and early leader in the church named John. He wrote it around 95AD on an island called Patmos where he was a prisoner. Think of Patmos like the biblical version of Alcatraz, just a little prettier. Here is a picture of the island of Patmos. It is located 40 miles off the shore of Turkey. Why was John a prisoner on this island? Because he, along with other Christians and churches in Asia Minor, were being persecuted by the Roman government. They were being persecuted because they would not worship Caesar. They refused to say “Caesar is Lord” because they believed only Jesus Christ is Lord. The Roman government saw this as being disloyal to the state and therefore they persecuted and punished the early church. While John was on this island he felt inspired by God to write to seven churches in Asia Minor who were also being persecuted for their faith. He wanted to encourage them. He knew these churches well. You will see he listed each one. And he had a special message for each of them, but each message had one thing in common: stay faithful in the midst of the persecution. Don’t compromise your faith in God because God is faithful. That was John’s message in a nutshell. Everything John writes in the book of Revelation addresses this message to those seven churches. Every symbol, every number, every beast and wild-eyed monster is about conveying to those seven churches not to compromise with the world but stay faithful to God in the midst of adversity. Therefore, what John was inspired to write was not meant to tell twenty-first-century Christians about the end times. Revelation is not a time-table for the end. John’s inspired words were written to encourage and challenge first-century Christians living in what is now Turkey to stop conforming to the culture around them and stop pledging allegiance to Rome and its gods but instead stay faithful to God almighty. For in the end, Rome would be defeated and God’s kingdom would prevail! But John knew the persecution and the temptation to compromise was strong. So the letter he needed to write would have to be different than other letters. It would have to stand out as powerful and evocative. It would need to convict and inspire in a special way. So what does John do? He uses a style of literature that was very popular within the early church, especially during persecution: “Apocalyptic” (meaning “revelation”). Apocalyptic literature was very popular because instead of using lectures, prose or poetry to communicate God and his power and love, it uses symbols and images of worship. It uses big caricatures and graphic descriptions to drive God’s message of truth home. It is transcendent language. So when you read Revelation, you have to switch gears to understand a different genre of literature. For example, in Revelation 17, the Roman Empire is described in a very provocative way: Then the angel carried me away in the Spirit into a wilderness. There I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast that was covered with blasphemous names and had seven heads and ten horns. The woman was dressed in purple and scarlet, and was glittering with gold, precious stones and pearls. She held a golden cup in her hand, filled with abominable things and the filth of her adulteries. The name written on her forehead was a mystery: BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF PROSTITUTES, AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH. I saw that the woman was drunk with the blood of God’s holy people, the blood of those who bore testimony to Jesus. –Revelation 17:3-6 What a vivid picture of the Roman Empire and its persecution of the early church! Of course, not every symbol and description in Revelation symbolizes one particular thing. At times this is the case but not always. Just know that apocalyptic literature is a literature of crisis and warning. It is also transcendent language that comforts and worshipful language that showers praise to God Almighty. All this beautifully inspired transcendent language reveals the main conflict in Revelation: Declare your allegiance to Rome or declare your allegiance to God. You have to choose. You can’t be loyal to both. John’s resounding message throughout Revelation is that God alone is worthy of our worship and pledging allegiance to Rome is simply idolatry. I love the places in Revelation where John describes the power and majesty of God and why he alone is worthy of our worship: “Day and night without ceasing they sing, “Holy, holy, holy, the Lord God the Almighty, who was and is and is to come.” And whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to the one who is seated on the throne, who lives forever and ever, the twenty-four elders fall before the one who is seated on the throne and worship the one who lives forever and ever; they cast their crowns before the throne, singing, “You are worthy, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will they existed and were created.” –Revelation 4:8–11 You see, throughout Revelation you see this continual contrast going on between the power and majesty of God and the diabolical nature of Rome. You must choose one. You can’t worship both and only God is worthy of our worship. Of course in describing the evil of Rome John expresses one of the most well known images in Revelation -the “mark of the beast”: [He will] cause those who would not worship the image of the beast to be killed. Also it causes all, both small and great, both rich and poor, both free and slave, to be marked on the right hand or “the forehead, so that no one can buy or sell who does not have the mark, that is, the name of the beast or the number of its name. This calls for wisdom: let anyone with understanding calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number of a person. Its number is six hundred sixty-six. –Revelation 13:15-18 This mark of the beast -666 -is very easy to understand. First it’s important to understand the number seven in Revelation. The number seven represents completeness, wholeness, or perfection. For example, the Holy Spirit is described as the sevenfold spirit. Jesus is described as a lamb with seven eyes and seven horns. Therefore, the number six is one less than perfection—it symbolizes imperfection, and “666” symbolizes utter imperfection. In Hebrew, Greek, and Latin letters represented numbers and vice versa. Many scholars have studied the correspondence of “666” in different language and have to the conclusion that, for John, it represented a figure who represented Rome at its most evil: Nero Caesar. Nero was the infamous emperor of Rome who had murdered leaders of the church in 65A.D. Nero committed suicide in 68 A.D. but many believed that he somehow came back to life to haunt them. The good news is that God triumphs over Rome and over all evil. Some of my favorite parts of Revelation are those inspiring passages that tell of God’s defeat of evil and the ultimate healing and transformation he will bring to human beings and the earth. Take a look at this passage: Then I saw “a new heaven and a new earth,” for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea. I saw the Holy City, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride beautifully dressed for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, “Look! God’s dwelling place is now among the people, and he will dwell with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. ‘He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death’ or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away.” He who was seated on the throne said, “I am making everything new!” Then he said, “Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true.” He said to me: “It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. To the thirsty I will give water without cost from the spring of the water of life. Those who are victorious will inherit all this, and I will be their God and they will be my children. –Revelation 21:1-7 So what does all of this mean for us today? Well, the message of Revelation, quite simply in two words is this: God Wins! God will be triumphant over evil, corruption, violence, nations, politics, etc. Therefore only God is worthy of our worship. Staying faithful to God means staying faithful to winning side. To bring it closer to home, I’d like to note Adam Hamilton’s interpretation of Revelation: “Just like Rome in Revelation there is a temptation for the state to deify itself. And every nation has values and practices that are contrary to those of the kingdom of God. The state at times seeks to be worshipped and served. It doesn’t always use those exact words but it demands the allegiance of the heart. And God’s people may be tempted to give in and compromise and to accept the state’s values. The question Revelation raises is, will you worship God or will you give your primary allegiance to the state? “Think about the leaders throughout the ages who have often longed to be worshipped alongside the state. Stalin in the Soviet Union, Hitler and his Nazi Party, Franco in Spain, Mussolini in Italy. 