important don’t you? Working on your sermon—can’t be disturbed. Well, you have just broken your little girl’s heart. People won’t remember that sermon you are writing one hour after you preach it. But your daughter will always remember the time you spent with her.” Riley said at that moment he got up out of his chair, walked out of his study, and went to find his little girl. He found her on the living room floor playing with her dolls. Riley said, “Honey, come back into my study. I want to talk to you. Daddy is not mad at you anymore. Just come back into my study.” When they were together in the study, Riley sat at his desk and put his daughter on his lap. He said, “Sweetheart, I want to apologize for the way I acted when you came into the study. You are more important than any sermon. I am so sorry. Can you forgive me?” She said, “Of course, Daddy. I love you.” Then Riley said, “Honey, I am having a tough time with my sermon. I am stuck, and I wonder if you could help me. I am talking about Jesus on Sunday. If there was anything you could say about Jesus what would you say?” She thought for a moment. Then she said, “I would say that if you ever get lost, Jesus will find you.” And he will. She summed up what Luke teaches us. Wherever you are, Jesus will find you. Will you allow yourself be found? Finally, we have what is known as the “maverick gospel,” the gospel of John. Matthew, Mark, and Luke are the synoptic gospels, meaning they are similar. They have many similarities. But John is different in that it is more philosophical and theological than the other gospels. John focuses on Jesus’ divine nature. Here is picture of Jesus reflecting how Jesus is portrayed in John. John is often called the spiritual gospel. There is less biography of Jesus and more on the spiritual significance of Jesus. John makes plain who Jesus is and what his life means. John’s primary concern is not to give readers another account of the life of Jesus but to make clear Jesus’ divine ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org identity and help us see that Jesus Christ Gives Life to Those Who Believe, abundant life now and life eternal: “For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.” –John 3:16 “The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy; I have come that they may have life, and have it to the full.” –John 10:10 “I am the vine; you are the branches. If you remain in me and I in you, you will bear much fruit; apart from me you can do nothing.” –John 15:5 Of course, John gives us perhaps the most comforting text in the whole New Testament. In fact, Jesus said these words in the upper room while instituting The Lord’s Supper, reminding us of the life we have now through the Spirit and the life we will have with God in heaven. Death is not the end. As Christians we never see each other for the last time. “Do not let your hearts be troubled. You believe in God; believe also in me. My Father’s house has many rooms; if that were not so, would I have told you that I am going there to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you also may be where I am. 4 You know the way to the place where I am going……. If you love me, keep my commands. 16 And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another advocate to help you and be with you forever— the Spirit of truth… I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you. Before long, the world will not see me anymore, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live.” -John 14:1-4, 15-19 Jesus is the fulfillment of the Old Testament. Jesus is the Crucified God. Jesus seeks and saves the lost. Jesus gives life to those who believe. Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. Read them and be transformed. Amen. Pasadena Community Church JJJJJooooouuuuurrrrrnnnnneeeeey yyyyTTTTThhhhhrrrrrooooouuuuugggggh hhhhttttthhhhhe eeeeBBBBBiiiiibbbbbllllle eeee~ The Gospels Sunday, March 1, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor This morning we continue our message series “Journey Through the Bible.” We are focusing on the New Testament now. Last week we covered the entire New Testament in 30 Minutes. We learned about the four main sections of the New Testament – Gospels, The Acts of Apostles, The Epistles, and Revelation. We discovered that the gospels reveal the heart and character of God. Acts and the Epistles show the church is God’s best hope for the world and that each of us plays a key role in the church. And the book of Revelation emphasizes that God has the last word. Today we are going to learn more about the four gospels – Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. We are a going to discover how each of them tells the story of Jesus in their own inspirational way. In fact, the four gospels give four powerful portraits of Jesus. What I have found in my own journey of faith is how much I need all four portraits of Jesus for my spiritual strength and growth. Today you are going to learn through each of the gospels why Jesus is the Savior of the world and how he can change your life and give you strength for living. Before we learn the powerful lessons that each gospel teaches us, I want you know how the four gospels came to be written. For the first few decades after Jesus’ resurrection the New Testament was not a book but a person – Jesus Christ. The gospel spread orally from person to person like wildfire transforming people. The early decades of the Christian faith contained no documents, just the Apostles’ preaching and teaching and healing. Yes, they drew upon Old Testament texts that they believed pointed to Jesus, but their central message was the life, teaching, death and resurrection of Jesus. But here is the interesting thing. As the Apostles got older some people began writing down what the Apostles said about Jesus. Their thinking was “These guys are not going to live forever and so we need to be sure this awesome stuff gets down on paper!” This became known as pre-gospel material. This was the raw material that would aid the writing of the four gospels in the New Testament. Around 65A.D. followers of Christ began taking the pre-gospel material that was written down about the Apostles’ experiences of Jesus and formulating what we know as the gospels. So you have the gospel of Mark, the first gospel written around 65 AD. They were the memoirs of Peter, interpreted and translated by Mark. Then around 80 AD you have Matthew and Luke being written. They relied on Mark and other pre gospel material, and they were experiences of the Apostles as well. Then later John was written around 90AD. Matthew, Mark and Luke are called “synoptic” gospels, meaning they are very “similar.” However, John is a maverick gospel. It is a more spiritual gospel that reveals who Jesus is theologically. So let’s get down to what the gospels teach us about Jesus and how he is the help and hope of the world! We begin with Matthew. Even though Matthew was not the first gospel written it was placed first in the New Testament for one very good reason: Matthew’s overriding message is that Jesus is the fulfillment of the Old Testament. Jesus’ life and teachings complete the teachings of the Hebrew Bible. That’s why it begins with a long genealogy showing Jesus came from the line of King David and was and is the long waited messiah and savior that God had promised. Jesus is the fulfillment of the all the Law and Prophets. Here’s an ancient portrait of the Jesus revealed in Matthew. Here is a quick time line. In the beginning God saw humans worshipping many gods and picked Abraham to tell people there was only one God. So God spoke to Abraham and said, “Hey Abraham! I’m picking you and your offspring to represent me to the world. So tell them it is just me up here. I am the only God. There is only one God and it’s me. Tell them that!” Then God saw that his people didn’t know how to live healthy lives and treat each other right. They didn’t know how to get along. So God said to Moses, “Let me give you these ten rules. Tell my people to live by these rules and life will be as I created it to be. They need boundaries.” The people of God were faithful for awhile and then they messed up and asked God for forgiveness and God forgave them. But God still didn’t think they had a clear picture of who he was and why he created them. So God said, “I’ll send a bunch of preachers to tell them and I will call them prophets. I will ask them to say it plainly to them: “I don’t want your animal sacrifices and obsession with rules. I don’t want you to just be a bunch of rule followers. You have missed the point. I want love in your hearts. I want you to love me and love the world. I want you to be merciful and just. I want you to be faithful to me and take care of my people.” The people of God and their leaders listened for awhile, but then they disobeyed God. Finally, God said, “I guess I’m going to have to do this myself. I’m going to show them who I really am and how I want them to live. I’m going to save them from themselves.” So God showed up on the earth in Jesus. Jesus was God in the flesh! He gave us the clearest picture of God. In Jesus we see that God is a God of love, mercy, forgiveness and grace. He summed up the Law and Prophets with the greatest commandment. He went all the way to the cross and said, “This is how much I love you.” In Jesus we finally have 20/20 vision of God. Therefore, Jesus is the lens through which we view all of scripture. We read the Bible in light of God’s revelation to us in Jesus Christ. Matthew underscores who God is in Jesus by showing how Jesus fulfilled many prophecies in the Old Testament. In Matthew alone there are over 25 messianic predictions in the Old Testament fulfilled in Jesus. And 12 times Matthew cites biblical prophets as they relate to Jesus as messiah. For example, take a look at this prophecy in Isaiah: Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign: The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and will call him Immanuel. –Isaiah 7:14 Then look at how Matthew tells of the fulfillment of this prophecy: She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins.” All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet: “The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will call him Immanuel”(which means “God with us”). –Matthew 1:21-23 Now look at this prophecy is from Hosea: “When Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son.” –Hosea 11:1 And now look at the fulfillment in Matthew: So he got up, took the child and his mother during the night and left for Egypt, where he stayed until the death of Herod. And so was fulfilled what the Lord had said through the prophet: “Out of Egypt I called my son.” –Matthew 2:14-15 One more from Zechariah: Rejoice greatly, Daughter Zion! Shout, Daughter Jerusalem! See, your king comes to you, righteous and victorious, lowly and riding on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey. –Zechariah 9:9 And now the fulfillment from Matthew: Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, “Go to the village ahead of you, and at once you will find a donkey tied there, with her colt by her. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone says anything to you, say that the Lord needs them, and he will send them right away.” This took place to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet. –Matthew 21:1-4 So in Matthew we see that Jesus was and is the long awaited messiah, the clearest picture we have of God. He is the perfect Mosaic teacher giving the greatest sermon ever preached, the sermon on the mount, embodying God and how he wants us to live. When we turn to Mark we see another portrait of Jesus. Mark wanted to show us that Jesus is the Crucified God. Here is a picture of Mark’s Jesus. It’s really fascinating what Mark highlights in Jesus’ ministry to convey his message. In Mark you will find the most puzzling texts about Jesus trying to keep his identity a secret. Which is strange, right? You would think Jesus would say, “Tell everyone you can about me!” That’s not what is emphasized in Mark. For example, take a look at this story about Jesus from Mark 7: 31 Then Jesus left the vicinity of Tyre and went through Sidon, down to the Sea of Galilee and into the region of the Decapolis. 32 There some people brought to him a man who was deaf and could hardly talk, and they begged Jesus to place his hand on him. 33 After he took him aside, away from the crowd, Jesus put his fingers into the man’s ears. Then he spit and touched the man’s tongue. 34 He looked up to heaven and with a deep sigh said to him, “Ephphatha!” (which means “Be opened!”). 35 At this, the man’s ears were opened, his tongue was loosened and he began to speak plainly. 36 Jesus commanded them not to tell anyone. What? Why not tell anyone? And you see example after example of this in Mark’s gospel. Why did Jesus want people to keep his identity a secret? Because in Mark we see that Jesus wanted people to know that he came to earth not to be a side show or a wonder worker. He came to earth to show the world how much he loves us by dying for us on a cross. He came to earth to give us the most profound expression of love. The message of Mark is driven home at Jesus’ crucifixion: At noon, darkness came over the whole land until three in the afternoon. And at three in the afternoon Jesus cried out in a loud voice, “Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?” (which means “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?”).When some of those standing near heard this, they said, “Listen, he’s calling Elijah.” Someone ran, filled a sponge with wine vinegar, put it on a staff, and offered it to Jesus to drink. “Now leave him alone. Let’s see if Elijah comes to take him down,” he said. With a loud cry, Jesus breathed his last. The curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And when the centurion, who stood there in front of Jesus, saw how he died, he said, “Surely this man was the Son of God!” –Mark 15:33-39 Notice it was the centurion, the very man in charge of Jesus’ torture and death, who recognized that Jesus was the Son of God. Why? Because in that moment the centurion saw the depth and power of God’s sacrificial love. Folks, it is God’s example of sacrificial love lived out in our lives that will transform this world. Mark shows us that God almighty came to earth to display the greatest expression of love for us, by dying for us. And through his death and resurrection he overcame death, sin, hopelessness. Through his death and resurrection he redeemed us. And his death shows us that God is one who understands and empathizes and comes along side to help us, heal us, encourage us. We don’t have a God who doesn’t want to understand us or who doesn’t understand us. We don’t have a God who is distant and aloof. We have a God who cares so much for us and loves us so much that he became one of us and suffered in the most brutal way so that we would know that he knows what it’s like to be us. When we are in pain, he feels it. He knows. I want you to hear that today. Wherever you are, whatever you are going through, whatever pain you are in, God carries your sorrows. He knows. He shares it with you, He cries with you. He aches with you. He loves you too much for you to deal with it alone. He will help you carry your sorrows and redeem your suffering. Mark shows us the crucified God who suffers for us and suffers with us. Mark shows us God in Christ and walking with us through our suffering and redeeming it. Now, we get to the gospel of Luke. Luke is a gospel that shows us the relentless love of God in Jesus Christ for all people. Luke shows us that Jesus Seeks and Saves the Lost. In Luke we find that Jesus’ heart breaks for the lost, the poor, the down and out, the thrown out, the neglected, the beaten, broken and bruised. Here is a painting of Jesus as portrayed in Luke, reaching out to a poor man. Luke shows Jesus hanging out with sinners and tax collectors showing them God loves them. It is in Luke we find Jesus preaching his first sermon proclaiming that he has come to release the oppressed, to give sight to the blind, and to heal the broken. It’s in Luke we find the Parable of the Prodigal Son and the Parable of the Good Samaritan, parables about how the outsiders become the insiders. It’s in Luke we find the gospel within the gospel, Luke 15, which begins with the Parable of the Lost Sheep: Now the tax collectors and sinners were all gathering around to hear Jesus. But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law muttered, “This man welcomes sinners and eats with them.” Then Jesus told them this parable: “Suppose one of you has a hundred sheep and loses one of them. Doesn’t he leave the ninety-nine in the open country and go after the lost sheep until he finds it? And when he finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders and goes home. Then he calls his friends and neighbors together and says, ‘Rejoice with me; I have found my lost sheep.’ I tell you that in the same way there will be more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who do not need to repent. –Luke 15:1-7 Riley Short was a great minister in our conference. I was his associate at First, Lakeland for four years and he survived! Riley loves to tell the story of the time early in his ministry when he was working on a sermon in his study. It had been a very busy week for him. He was tired and cranky, and he just wanted to get his sermon done. He was in the middle of an important thought when his 8 year old daughter barged in to his study without knocking and said, “Hey daddy! You would not believe what I heard today!” Riley got very upset and said, “What do you think you are doing? You don’t just barge in here without knocking. Daddy is working on a sermon and can’t talk right now. You go outside and play and I will talk to you later.” This took the wind right out of her sail. Riley sat back down at his desk, and he tried to keep going on his sermon but he couldn’t. The ideas and thoughts would not come. In his frustration he sensed God say to him, “Riley, you think you are so 