us to be weak, co-dependent people? No! It means we make God the source of our strength and joy. We make him the guiding light of our lives. We give him the driver’s seat. We surrender all that we have all that we are to him. You see, so often in our independence and stubbornness, we do the best we can and leave the rest to God. And there is nothing left for God! Or what is left is not our best. We have taken it. We do and do and then pray, “Bless this, Lord.” We do it backwards. And then we wonder why we don’t have the power we need for living. We wonder why we are frustrated and lack joy. We must do the exact opposite. Instead of doing the best we can and leaving the rest to God, we need to be giving it all to God and then doing the best we can! That’s what it means to live depending on God. See the difference! I have learned this truth and it is one you can take to the bank: The more we depend on God the more dependable we find he is! The problem is so often we never depend on God long enough to find out how dependable he really is. I like how Rick Warren puts it: “Every day you have a choice who’s going to be in control of your life — you or God. That choice is a battle. There are things in your life that you want to control. You want to make your own rules. But finding peace and power begins with letting God be God. It always starts with saying, ‘God, I’m giving up control, because you can control the things that are out of control in my life.’” “I don’t know what you’re going to face this week. You don’t, either. But I can already tell you what God wants you to do: Let go, and know. Let go of control, and know that God is in control. Let go, and know! This is the first step to serenity in your life. That’s why Jesus pointed to children. They did it naturally! ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org “The number one reason you’re under stress is because you’re in conflict with God. You’re trying to control things that only God can control. You can’t control your husband or your kids or your wife or your job or your future or your past or any of that stuff. The more you do it, the more you’re trying to play God, and that puts you in opposition to God. Not only are you going to lose that conflict, but you’re also going to be tired” (rickwarren.org). Most of us know the first part to the Serenity prayer. It was written by Reinhold Neibuhr, a great American theologian: God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, The courage to change the things I can, And the wisdom to know the difference. What’s fascinating is that most people do not know the rest of Niebuhr’s prayer: “Living one day at a time, enjoying one moment at a time, accepting hardship as a pathway to peace, taking as Jesus did this sinful world as it is, not as I would have it; trusting that you will make all things right if I surrender to your will so that I may be reasonably happy in this life and supremely happy with you forever in the next. Amen.” That’s where the power is! There is power when you surrender to God the very things you’ve been trying to take control. Imagine waking up every day and saying to the Lord, “You’re in charge. What do you want me to do today? Show me and I will do it.” Life and ministry would flow so much better. We would have more power for living. I close with a passage from Isaiah that I remember when I am trying to control my life: For I am the LORD your God who takes hold of your right hand and says to you, Do not fear; I will help you. –Isaiah 41:13 Pasadena Community Church WWWWWhhhhho ooooAAAAArrrrre eeeeYYYYYooooou uuuuTTTTTrrrrryyyyyiiiiinnnnng ggggttttto ooooIIIIImmmmmppppprrrrreeeeessssssssss? ????~ Child’s Play Mark 10: 13 -16 Sunday, May 17, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Today I continue our series, “Who are you trying to impress?” We have a simple choice. We can spend our lives impressing others or impressing Jesus but we can’t do both. Real life is found when we spend our lives impressing Jesus. At the end of our lives we are not going to be thinking about all the ways we succeeded or failed at impressing others. We will be thinking about all the ways we succeeded or failed at impressing Jesus. Those will be the moments that matter. Those will be the moments that count. The gospels provide several fascinating accounts of Jesus encountering people who really impressed and amazed him. So for the next few weeks we are going to take a look at these encounters and learn from them. I hope this series motivates all of us to dedicate our lives to impressing Jesus because that is the only life worth living. So far we have looked at four people who really impressed Jesus: A poor widow who risked everything for God, a pagan centurion who expected Jesus to act, Mary, who made spending time with Jesus a priority and last week we looked at a woman who moved Jesus by a simple act done with great love. Today we turn our attention not to an individual but to a group of people who made an impression on Jesus. This group impressed Jesus so much that he said they embodied everything he taught about God. Jesus never said that about anyone or any other group of people! He was often disappointed in the disciples with their lack of faith and inability to grasp what he taught. He criticized the religious leaders for missing everything that he taught. And he warned much of the crowd who wanted to follow him that they really didn’t have any idea what it meant to follow him. But the group we are going to look at today, well, Jesus felt they nailed it. Their lives and example reflected what Jesus sought to teach the world. In fact, Jesus was so impressed with them that he said they were the benchmark for understanding God and life. And he said if we are serious about following him we would do well to follow their example. That’s high praise from the King of Kings and Lord of Lords! So here is the promise of today’s message. If we follow the example of this group that impressed Jesus so much, we can experience more of the power of God in our lives. Does that sound good? I know it does to me. Because I don’t know about you, but I need all the help I can get! And I imagine you do too! I’m sure there are some of you who feel like life is an uphill battle every day. Your relationships, your work, your personal issues, they all feel like hard fought battles everyday and you are exhausted. Or maybe you have hit a wall in your life spiritually or emotionally and you don’t know how to break through it. Perhaps your marriage or career feels stuck and you have tried and tried and tried to find your way out and it seems impossible. You want more power. You need more power in your life. And you are like, “God, a little help here! I need some help! Do something! I feel like I am doing everything by myself!” There have been plenty of times in my life when I have felt that way. I’ve been there. It’s no fun. You look around and see folks living effortlessly and you think, “What am I doing wrong? I am praying every day. No, I am begging God every day. I’m going to church. I’m trying to be nice to people. I’m trying really hard. I’m doing the best I can and I still feel like I am swimming upstream all the time!” At one point in my life when I felt this way, I learned a powerful lesson about faith that turned things around completely for me. Well, I guess I should say I relearned it. I learned it a long time ago but forgot it, much to my regret. But when I relearned this lesson and began to apply it I immediately began to feel more of God’s power in my life. Now, I am not saying I am perfect. There are times when I forget to apply the lesson and I get into a rut again. But whenever I get into that rut of feeling powerless, I remember and apply this lesson and it always gets me back on track. I feel and experience more of God’s power and life seems effortless to me. And you can experience the same thing if you simply apply this lesson. So you have a choice today: You can ignore the lesson and stay in the rut you are in today or you can apply this lesson and feel the power of God in your life and find the strength and answers you need to move forward in life. So what is the lesson? Well, it is the lesson we discover by observing a group of people who really impressed Jesus. Their example is all we need and I want to lift it up today. Now, let me say that the passage of scripture we are about to study will be very familiar to many of you. The problem is that because it is so familiar many of us have never taken the time to really understand the profound wisdom in this passage of scripture. So let’s take the time today. This time will be time well spent. I promise you that. Let’s take a look. It appears in Mark 10: People were bringing little children to Jesus for him to place his hands on them… –Mark 10:13 So Jesus is teaching and preaching. Everyone is clamoring for his attention. I am sure it was overwhelming. And there comes a point when a bunch of parents show up with their kids because they want Jesus to bless their children. Rabbis did that back then. They would pronounce blessings on children, much like we do when we baptize babies. So when parents heard Jesus was around, they rounded up their children and headed to see Jesus! You can’t blame these parents! If you had children back then and knew there was an opportunity for Jesus to bless them, you would do everything you could to get them to Jesus! So these parents show up with children of all ages, from infants to those 12 years of age. I am sure some mothers approached Jesus with their infants, wanting to place the babies in his arms. Kids were running around all over the place, making noise. Babies were crying. Toddlers were crawling away from mom. Kids were telling mom they needed to use the bathroom. It was chaos. So the disciples saw all this going on around Jesus and they tried to put a stop to it. Take a look: …but the disciples rebuked them. –Mark 10:13 The disciples didn’t like this at all, so they told the parents and kids to go away. Now, over the years the disciples have gotten a bad rap from this text. They have been wrongly characterized as not liking children, “Get those kids out of here. They should be seen and not heard! This is no place for kids!” Well, that’s not really fair. The spirit of this text shows us that the disciples were not child haters; they simply wanted to protect Jesus. People were pulling at Jesus from all directions all the time. And at this point in his ministry the shadow of the cross loomed large before him. He had a lot on his mind and had a lot of things he needed to say. The disciples didn’t want Jesus to be bothered. They were trying to be Jesus’ protectors. But regardless, Jesus was not pleased with the disciples at all. Take a look: When Jesus saw this, he was indignant. He said to them, “Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them…” -Mark 10:14 Jesus got angry with the disciples for trying to stop the children from coming to him. We learn a lot about what Jesus cared about by noticing what angered him. And nine times out of ten Jesus got angry when people were treated unfairly -when something wrong was done to people, when the needs of people were -overlooked or ignored. And it was the same here. Jesus knew these children wanted and needed him to hold them and bless them. His huge heart went out to them. So when the disciples tried to stop them, Jesus got angry and said, “What are you doing? Let them come. Let them come! Don’t do you dare stop them!” This tells us a great deal about Jesus. It tells us that he loved children and children loved him. It tells us that Jesus was not gloomy, stuffy and boring. He was filled with joy and was not afraid to play and have fun. He loved to laugh and have a good time. He was approachable. Children are drawn to people like that and this text clearly tells us that children were drawn to Jesus. Even in the midst of teaching and preaching and thinking about the cross Jesus had time to play with children, to look in their eyes and smile, to hold them and bless them. Why was Jesus this way? What was it about children that he loved and appreciated? What was it about children that impressed him? Well, he gives us a clue by saying something truly remarkable in the text: “…for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these.” –Mark 10:14 Wow! The Kingdom of God belongs to children? The Kingdom of God is for those who are just like these children around me who are laughing, hugging, and getting blessed by me. In other words, you want to know what being in relationship with God is all about, loving and obeying God is all about take a look at kids. They have it all figured out and they don’t even know it! It was as if Jesus said, “Don’t look at the religious leaders. Don’t look at my disciples. Don’t look at those in power. Don’t look those who are smart and resourceful. Don’t look at those who have money.” Jesus said, “You want to know what connecting with God and living life in relationship and obedience to God is all about, look at these kids. They will show you all you need to know.” What are these kids supposed to show us? What did they have figured out that moved Jesus to give them such high praise? What do kids do that make them the benchmark of all were striving for and trying to be as Christians in relationship with God? Well, listen closely because Jesus gives us the answer and the answer is the most direct and succinct thing Jesus ever said: “Truly I tell you, anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God like a little child will never enter it.” And he took the children in his arms, placed his hands on them and blessed them. –Mark 10:15-16 Whoa! Wait a minute! Hold everything! That’s a big statement from Jesus! Unless we receive the kingdom of God like a little child we will never enter it? What does he mean by that? I think all of us want to enter the kingdom of God, right! We all want in there! Who doesn’t want in there? But Jesus said that unless we receive the Kingdom like a kid we can never enter it. How can you receive something and enter it at the same time? Listen closely because those of you who want more of the power and strength of God in your life are about to find out how to get it. Those of you who are tired of swimming upstream in life and are feeling stuck are about to find the solution. Listen up. The Kingdom of God is when God’s will and power are perfectly expressed. One day that will be all the time and everywhere. In the meantime, his will and power are expressed through our relationship with him. So when Jesus is talking about entering the Kingdom he is usually talking about entering a powerful and intimate relationship with God. But he said unless we receive that relationship, come to that relationship, live in that relationship like a child, we will never really know the power, strength, and will of God in our lives. So how does a child receive the Kingdom? How does a child receive anything? With complete and utter dependence! Children are completely dependent on others for their welfare and well being. I remember feeding my nephews when they were little….and they would eat and eat and eat…I was struck by how dependent they were on me. And as I took them out to play and walked them across the street, they would squeeze my hand so tight, and again I was struck by how dependent they were on me. And when their toy would break they would come to me completely depending on me to fix what was broken. So Jesus said that unless we can enter a relationship with God with an attitude of dependence, we can never really be in relationship with God. We can never know his power, strength or will in our lives. Approaching God with an attitude of dependence is extremely difficult for us. Why? Because we are impressed with independence not dependence. “Lord, just give me a road map and let me handle it myself. I can be self-sufficient….” Living this way spiritually is deadly. This is why we struggle. We are searching for our own self sustaining power through independence but the power we seek can only be found by depending on God. Eventually living life on our own power, by our own will, with our own confidence will leave us exhausted and depleted. God designed us to live an empowered relationship with him! And the only way to enter that relationship is by depending on God. So here is the message: We want independence; God wants dependence. We are impressed with independence. God is impressed with dependence. Now, does this mean God wants 