Methodist). I’m sure for years the Samaritan thought God was angry at him….he was a Samaritan… he had leprosy… But once he was healed, he knew he could count on a loving God no matter what. He would still have to deal with the fact that he was a Samaritan. He would still have to deal with other illnesses like everyone else. But now he knew he could count on God’s love no matter what he faced in life. And folks that’s where a healing attitude of gratitude comes from. “Gratitude is grounded in the nature of a loving God; not in the circumstances of our lives” (Harper). It’s good to count your blessings and to thank God for what you have in life but eventually that will wear thin. It will only go so far. There will be days when you have more burdens than blessings and if you base your thinking on God’s view of you through blessings it will always lead to disappointment. That’s why many folks think God is mad at them or does not love them! Maybe that is where you are today. You think God is angry at you. You think God does not love you. Like the Samaritan leper you have kept God at arm’s length because you think all the painful stuff of your life means God is angry at you. Nothing could be further from the truth. “We as disciples give thanks not for what is happening to us but for the fact that nothing can happen to us apart from the loving presence of God!” (Harper). We don’t give thanks to God for everything because everything is good. Some things stink! We give thanks to God because he is present in everything and ready and willing to come to our assistance and help us. Because God is good we can give all our burdens to him. God cares. God knows and God gives strength, grace and peace. Paul had learned the kind of faith that made him well. He said: I have learned to be content whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want. I can do all this through him who gives me strength. –Philippians 4:11-13 John Wesley had this kind of gratitude. Many don’t know that Wesley had a great fear of death, like many do. Earlier in his life, it was his greatest fear. He really struggled with it. But when he came to the hour of death his last words were, “The best of all is, God is with us.” Wesley died giving thanks that God would always be with him! So your homework is quite simple. I want you to do two things. For the next week, wake up every day and pray this prayer: “God, I am so grateful I can count on your loving presence in everything. I know there is nothing I am going to face today that you and I can’t handle.” And then make note of “Glory Sightings” in your life this week. Where do you see God at work in your life? Where have you seen, felt or been aware of God’s loving presence in your life? Doing those two things everyday will make you well. Amen. Pasadena Community Church WWWWWhhhhho ooooAAAAArrrrre eeeeYYYYYooooou uuuuTTTTTrrrrryyyyyiiiiinnnnng ggggttttto ooooIIIIImmmmmppppprrrrreeeeessssssssss? ????~ The One Who Came Back Luke 17: 11 -19 Sunday, May 24, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Today I continue our series, “Who are you trying to impress?” We have a simple choice. We can spend our lives impressing others or impressing Jesus but we can’t do both. Real life is found when we spend our lives impressing Jesus. At the end of our lives we are not going to be thinking about all the ways we succeeded or failed at impressing others. We will be thinking about all the ways we succeeded or failed at impressing Jesus. Those will be the moments that matter. Those will be the moments that count. The gospels provide several fascinating accounts of Jesus encountering people who really impressed and amazed him. So we have been looking at these encounters and learning from them. I hope this series motivates all of us to dedicate our lives to impressing Jesus because that is the only life worth living. Today we turn our attention to a person who was truly one of a kind in the eyes of Jesus. He was terribly sick and an outcast in society but that’s not what made him special to Jesus. What made him special to Jesus was his attitude and how his attitude affected his behavior. That is what impressed Jesus. In fact, we are going to see in just a minute that his attitude healed him. What was so special about his attitude and why did it heal him? Well, you are about to find out. But before I go into this man’s story I want to tell you what today’s message can do for you. Today’s message can give you a profound attitude adjustment and change the way you understand God and the way you see your life. Anyone need an attitude adjustment today? We all need one from time to time. Some need a bigger adjustment than others, but we all need one and we all know others who need one. Turn the person next to you and say, “You need an attitude adjustment.” Ever been around someone who is negative all the time? They just always see the bad in everything. If you say, “Wow! It’s a gorgeous day.” They will reply, “Yeah, but we really need more rain.” If you say, “That was a great golf shot!” They will reply, “Yeah, but I still have to putt and I can screw that up.” If you say, “That was a great meal.” They, “Yeah, I’ve had better.” They just can’t be happy and satisfied with where they are and what is front of them. They are always negative, always critical, always relentless in their refusal to find joy in anything. And it’s not fun being around these folks, is it? Life for them is a problem to be confronted instead of a great adventure to be lived. Do you know someone like that? Is that someone you? Is that where you are today? Do you find yourself at a place where you see everything in your life as a problem to be confronted? Every day you wake up you feel like you are preparing for another battle. Do you find yourself focusing on the negative in life because that way you feel like you will never be disappointed? Do you often see the bad in others instead of their good qualities because one negative experience with a person has caused you to be jaded? Are you cynical about life most of the time and is it choking the joy and peace out of you? Are you angry at God because you have always thought God was angry at you? Are you generally anxious all the time and can’t figure out why? Do you just not like where you are in life? Well, today I am going to show you how to get joy back in your life. In this message I am going to show you how you can be healed of your fear, anxiety, anger, cynicism and whatever else is keeping you from living a healthy life in God. ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org Today’s message can give you a new attitude that will enable you to get up each day and feel excited about your life. This message can enable you to no longer see life as a series of problems to confront and solve but opportunities to embrace and enjoy. But maybe some of you are thinking, “Yeah, this sounds too good to be true. How can one sermon do all that? I mean, Charley, I’m all for this change in attitude and finding joy, but aren’t you aiming a bit high, bud?” Well, I have two things to say to that. One, Jesus is really the one who is making this promise, not me. I am simply going to tell a story about Jesus pronouncing healing on a man because of his attitude. And I believe it is a story that applies to every single one of us. Plain and simple. Two, what do you have to lose? The only thing you have to lose is a bad attitude that is killing your soul. And what do you have to gain? All the joy and meaning and vitality that God wants for you. So let’s take a closer look at this man’s story and the transforming message it teaches us. His story appears in the gospel of Luke, chapter 17: Now on his way to Jerusalem, Jesus traveled along the border between Samaria and Galilee. As he was going into a village, ten men who had leprosy met him. –Luke 17:11-12 So Jesus is on his way to Jerusalem with his disciples and as he gets near Samaria he enters a leper colony. Now lepers were considered unclean to Jews because of their disease. Leprosy was an awful disease. It caused the skin to develop ugly painful sores everywhere. Back then Jews believed if you got leprosy it was because of some terrible sin you committed. And if you touched a leper you were considered unclean. So lepers were forced to live together in colonies away from their own communities. They were separated from family and friends and couldn’t even worship God with everyone else. But Jesus completely disregarded the dumb taboo of leprosy. They were God’s children like anybody else and he never let silly cultural norms and religious laws get in the way of loving people. So he just walked right into a leper colony. Look what happened next: They stood at a distance and called out in a loud voice, “Jesus, Master, have pity on us!” –Luke 17:13 Whenever lepers got anywhere near other people who didn’t have the disease, they were supposed to yell out, “Unclean, Unclean!” And they were especially required to do it if they were anywhere near a rabbi. So here came Jesus, and he walked right into a colony filled with lepers. And he saw ten lepers with awful, painful, sores all over the bodies. They stood at a distance, but instead of yelling out, “Unclean! Unclean!” they yelled out, “Jesus, please have mercy on us!” They were in so much pain and misery. They had heard of Jesus and his healing power and they just wanted relief from their suffering. Maybe ten of them saw Jesus coming from a long way. Maybe they heard the rumor he was going to show up and they got together and said, “We know it is a long shot. We know he might not even look at us, but maybe if we scream out loud enough he will help us.” So they mustered enough courage to do it and when they saw Jesus, they saw love in his eyes and begged him to help them. Look at what happens next: When he saw them, he said, “Go, show yourselves to the priests.” And as they went, they were cleansed. –Luke 17:14 Wow! Jesus gave one look at these lepers and he was so moved with compassion that he didn’t even want to take the time to go through the routine of healing them. He just snapped his fingers and said, “Go back to the temple and show the priests you are no longer unclean.” And they were probably thinking. “What? So they did what Jesus said and as they were headed to the temple one said, “Hey, wait a second! I don’t have any sores on my arm! Wait, I don’t think there are any on my face!....Me too. Me too! It’s gone! Wow! We’re clean! We’re healed!”….Amazing. But what happened next was just as amazing to Jesus: One of them, when he saw he was healed, came back, praising God in a loud voice. He threw himself at Jesus’ feet and thanked him… -Luke 17:15-16 One of the lepers couldn’t contain himself. He was so happy, so grateful, so overwhelmed with joy and thanksgiving that he said, “You know what, I’ll catch up with you guys a little later. I’ve got to go thank Jesus for what he has done for me. He has changed my life! I must tell him how grateful I am!” And he threw himself at Jesus. The other nine just kept going but this one man went back to Jesus to thank him. But that’s not the only reason why he was different. Take a look: —and he was a Samaritan. –Luke 17:16 Whoa! The Jews hated the Samaritans. They were half Jew half something else. They practiced their faith the wrong way. They were half breeds and pagans. So not only was this man a leper; he was also an outcast! He was an outcast times two! And yet he was the one who came back to thank Jesus. The other nine never looked back. It never occurred to them to say “Thank You.” But this outcast was so grateful for what Jesus had done for him that he didn’t care what other people thought about him. He was going to thank Jesus! And he did. And as he was kneeling before Jesus giving all kinds of thanks and praise Jesus made a penetrating observation: Jesus asked, “Were not all ten cleansed? Where are the other nine? Has no one returned to give praise to God except this foreigner?” –Luke 17:17-18 Now, this is too good. This is funny. You have to understand the tone in which Jesus said this. There was probably a crowd of people watching all of this, many of whom were devout Jews who despised Samaritans. These questions were rhetorical. He was trying to make a point. Remember Jesus was always for the underdog. He loved those who were marginalized. And in that spirit he said this with tongue in cheek. It was as if he is saying to the crowd, “You think you have it all figured out, that you are only ones who get it, that you are perfect and the Samaritans are worthless and have it all wrong. And yet looky here! It was the Samaritan who got it right! It was the Samaritan who responded with a spiritually mature vitality. What do you know? You think he was doubly cursed. I tell you he is doubly blessed!” Look at what Jesus said: Then he said to him, “Rise and go; your faith has made you well.” –Luke 17:19 Wait a second? Wasn’t he already healed? Why did Jesus heal him twice? Why did Jesus say that? He was already cleansed and healed on his way to church. Why was he doubly blessed? Well, the first healing was physical but the second healing was spiritual. “Well” means “Whole.” Jesus was saying that his grateful attitude had made him whole on the inside. It had healed his brokenness. It had healed him of any of the bitterness, cynicism, anger that had plagued him for so long as a leper and a Samaritan. The other nine, well their leprosy on the outside was gone but it’s possible that they still had leprosy on the inside. I know people who are physically healthy but spiritually dead. I know people who go to the doctor and get healed physically but their souls are sick. Not the Samaritan. He was physically and spiritually whole because of his attitude of gratitude. So what does this powerful story have to teach us about a healing attitude, about an attitude that turns our sadness into joy, our mourning into dancing, our anxiety into peace? Well, it’s not what you might think. This is not one of those sermons where I tell you, “Be grateful for what you have. Count your blessings and you will appreciate what you do have and that will change your attitude.” That’s not bad. In fact, that is very good. But that’s not what this text teaches us and that’s not the attitude that healed the Samaritan leper. And truthfully, counting your blessings only goes so far. Here is the message: Gratitude comes from relying on God’s love; not on the circumstances of our lives. Gratitude comes from relying on the love of God in everything. You see, I don’t think that leper came back to Jesus to thank him because he was so holy and good and won the Norman Vincent Peale award for being the most positive Samaritan in Samaria. I believe the Samaritan was the one who came back to thank Jesus because he realized through his healing that to God he wasn’t an outsider. He wasn’t despised. He wasn’t less than. He wasn’t worthless. He wasn’t all those things people said about him. When he looked into the eyes of Jesus he realized that God loved him and he could count on that love no matter what. When he was healed he realized that he was a child of God just like the others. His healing went much deeper than cleansing him of leprosy. It cleansed him of all the terrible things the culture told him he was and put a new spirit in him that could count on the love of God. That’s what made him so grateful. Charles Allen was Senior Pastor of the First United Methodist Church of Houston, Texas for many years. And for many years he was the best known Methodist pastor in the world. Some years ago he was interviewed by a group of ministers at an annual conference. He was asked, “What is the number one problem you have had to deal with over the years of your ministry?” Without hesitation, he replied, “The number one problem I have had to deal with is the mistaken notion so many people have that God is mad at them.” He believed, as do I, that as long as people see themselves in the presence of an angry God, God can never become a meaningful part of their lives (Steve Harper, Five Marks of a 