and look over their strategic plan for raising a healthy child in 18 years! Great mothers simply do what they can with great love one day at a time. They feed, listen, discipline and play with love. Sometimes it is difficult and tedious but they keep doing it each day. They do what they can. And their small acts of great love eventually lead to the raising of a child. If mothers thought about all they would have to do for 18 years at once it would be impossible. But each day doing what they can with great love leads to the fulfillment of one of the greatest callings in the world – being a mother. Small acts done with great love eventually lead to great big things. A Church goer wrote a letter to the editor of a newspaper and complained that it made no sense to go to church every Sunday. “I’ve gone for 30 years now,’ he wrote, ‘and in that time I have heard something like 3,000 sermons. But for the life of me, I can’t remember a single one of them. So, I think I’m wasting my time and ministers are wasting theirs by giving sermons at all.” This started a real controversy in the “Letters to the Editor” column. Much to the delight of the editor, it went on for weeks until someone wrote this clincher: “I’ve been married for 30 years now. In that time my wife has cooked some 32,000 meals. But, for the life of me, I cannot recall the entire menu for a single one of those meals.But I do know this… They all nourished me and gave me the strength I needed to do my work. If my wife had not given me these meals, I would be physically dead today. Likewise, if I had not gone to church for nourishment, I would be spiritually dead today!” When we simply do what we can for Jesus with great love those little things can lead to great big things. Do you spend more time thinking about what you can’t do for Jesus or do you spend more time doing what you can for Jesus? This week I want you to spend the week just doing what you can to serve Jesus – call a friend PASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org who needs encouragement, invite someone to church, smile at someone, give extra time at work to help a co-worker. Just do what you can and by the end of the week you will feel exhilarated, renewed and surprised by how just doing what you can make a big difference. I end this message with a great example of what I am talking about. “Louisville police officer Bill Mayo pulled over the youngest perpetrator of his career this week: a 2 year-old boy named Jaxon. Jaxon loves his toy car, and when his mother, Ashley Crawford, saw that a local police officer was tending to a small car wreck on her street, she asked if he could do her a favor and pull up with the lights on behind her son. “Officer Mayo was happy to play along. ‘I saw this little boy who looked to be not much older than my son, and he was running up and down the street like my son does and he just made me smile,’ Mayo tells Yahoo Parenting. ‘He had this Little Tikes car, and his mom asked if she could snap some pictures. I would never say no to a boy like that. He kept looking up at me like I was some kind of Transformer. He kept smiling.’ “Jaxon and Mayo spent about 20 minutes together, playing hide-and-go-seek and exchanging high-fives and hugs, Crawford says. ‘He went above and beyond just so my son would smile,’ she says. ‘I think it's important to see that police officers aren't people you should be scared of. They are the people you should turn to for help.’ “But Mayo says he was the lucky one. ‘I probably got just as much out of the interaction as Jaxon did. It made my day complete,’ he says. ‘I'm just a big kid as it is. In a child's world, make believe and pretend is what it's all about. I would do it a thousand times over’" (sunnyskyz.com). All Jesus asks of us is that we do what we can for him with great love. Amen. Pasadena Community Church WWWWWhhhhho ooooAAAAArrrrre eeeeYYYYYooooou uuuuTTTTTrrrrryyyyyiiiiinnnnng ggggttttto ooooIIIIImmmmmppppprrrrreeeeessssssssss? ????~ What Jesus Never Forgets Mark 14:3-Sunday, May 10, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServeToday I continue our series, “Who are you trying to impress?” If we are honest, we all have the desire to impress people. We want to be liked, accepted, recognized and so we often spend a lot of time and energy trying to impress others. But a life spent impressing people is exhausting and miserable because we often compromise who God created us to be. We have two choices: we can spend our lives impressing others or impressing Jesus. But we can’t do both. Real life is found when we spend our lives impressing Jesus. At the end of our lives we are not going to be thinking about all the ways we succeeded or failed at impressing others. We will be thinking about all the ways we succeeded or failed at impressing Jesus. Those will be the moments that matter. Those will be the moments that count. The gospels provide several fascinating accounts of Jesus encountering people who really impressed and amazed him. So for the next few weeks we are going to take a look at these encounters and learn from them. I hope this series motivates all of us to dedicate our lives to impressing Jesus because that is the only life worth living. So far we have looked at three people who really impressed Jesus: A poor widow who risked everything for God, a pagan centurion who expected Jesus to act, and last week Sidney did a fabulous job lifting up Mary who made spending time with Jesus a priority. Today we focus on another woman who impressed Jesus. Isn’t it interesting that three out of the four people who impressed Jesus so far in this series were women? That shouldn’t surprise any of us. Well the woman we focus on today not only impressed Jesus but deeply moved him. In fact, Jesus said it was an act the world would never forget. Here’s the fascinating thing – according to everyone else’s standards what this woman did was foolish, wasteful, careless, and caused the disciples to get very angry. Just goes to show you that what often moves Jesus makes the world angry. Yet if we look deeper into the story of this woman we will find a liberating truth that has the potential to move our faith to the next level. This truth also has the potential to move our church to the next level of growth and ministry. Yes, it’s that powerful! Are you not happy with where you are as a Christian? Do you want to grow more as a Christian? Do you want to grow closer to God? Do you ever find yourself wishing you could do more for Jesus and the church but you never seem to get there, you never seem to get around to it? Do you ever make promises to yourself and to others about doing more for Jesus but you always seem to break those promises and then you feel so guilty about it that you never make promises again? If you or someone you know feels this way, this message is for you! Because today’s message can empower you to be the kind of Jesus follower you always wanted to be. As a pastor, I come across many people who get excited about their faith. They join the church. They love God and want to get closer to him. They have big dreams about what they can do for God. They sign up for this and they sign up for that. And then two months later they stop coming to church on a regular basis. They stop coming to Bible study. They stop showing up to serve. Sometimes I come across their names or pictures in the office and I think, “I wonder what happened to them? They were so excited about their faith and becoming active in the church.” Well, I know what happened to them. They lost their steam and excitement. They lost their sense of commitment. Other interests in life distracted them and pulled them away. These are not bad people because the truth is it can happen to all of us. Sometimes it happens to me! I am not on fire to do ministry 100 percent of the time. Most of the time I am, but there are also times when I need to rekindle my fire. My faith and commitment need to be renewed. So how do we prevent the fire from going out or if it does go out how do we find that, passion, motivation and commitment again? Well, I’m here to tell you folks that today’s message gives us the answer. Today’s message can renew your faith and commitment to Christ. Today’s message can start that fire for God again in your soul. And the truth is the message is not complicated. In fact, it is deceptively simple. You are just one act a way from taking your faith to the next level. So let’s get after it. This woman’s story appears in the gospel of Mark. She encounters Jesus when the religious leaders are starting to plot to kill him. Judas is about to betray him. Tensions are high. Things are starting to come to a boil for Jesus. In the midst of this time Jesus decides to get away from the chaos for a little while by having dinner at a friend’s house. What happens at this dinner Jesus would never forget and the world would remember forever. Let’s take a look: While he was in Bethany, reclining at the table in the home of Simon the Leper, a woman came with an alabaster jar of very expensive perfume, made of pure nard. She broke the jar and poured the perfume on his head. –Mark 14:3 So here is Jesus reclining at the table, enjoying conversation, waiting for Simon to finish grilling the ribeyes. All of a sudden a woman appears and approaches Jesus. We don’t know who she was. She may have been the caterer. She may have been a friend of Simon’s invited to the dinner party. She may have been hired by Simon to sing while they ate. We don’t know. But one thing we know is that she approached Jesus with an alabaster jar filled with very expensive perfume. Here is a picture of an alabaster jar from the time of Jesus. It was a jar made of unique stone that is translucent. And these jars often held expensive perfumes and oils. Well, the lady at the dinner party had one of these jars filled with a fragrant oil called nard. Nard is still used today as a calming fragrance. This lady broke the jar and poured all of the perfume on Jesus’ head while he was at the dinner table. She just walked up to Jesus while he was eating his steak, broke the jar, and poured the perfume all over him. Now why? That seems weird doesn’t it? If someone did that to me, I’d be a little ticked. That oil takes forever to wash off and it smells weird. I would no longer smell my delicious steak. Instead I would smell pungent perfume. Why would she do this? Well, let’s continue the story: Some of those present were saying indignantly to one another, “Why this waste of perfume? It could have been sold for more than a year’s wages and the money given to the poor.” And they rebuked her harshly. –Mark 14:4-5 The people around the table that night must have been Jesus’ finance committee! They were appalled at what the woman did, not just because it was strange but because they knew how expensive the perfume was. And she dumped the whole darn thing on Jesus. All that perfume was worth a year’s salary! Scholars estimate that in our terms the perfume was worth about 1,000 dollars. So, in essence, this woman dumped a thousand dollars worth of perfume on Jesus. The followers of Jesus around him that night got angry and criticized the woman. Can you blame them? “All that money could have fed thousands of people. And you just completely wasted it. What a gross display of waste. We could have sold the perfume and given money to the poor or to missions, and you wasted it.” So how did Jesus respond? What did he think of this woman’s wasteful act? Well, he wasn’t angry about it. Far from it. He was deeply moved. Take a look: “Leave her alone,” said Jesus. “Why are you bothering her? She has done a beautiful thing to me. The poor you will always have with you, and you can help them any time you want. But you will not always have me.” –Mark 14:6-7 Jesus didn’t think what the woman did was wasteful, careless, foolish or strange. He thought it was beautiful. This woman knew more than anyone at the dinner party that night. She knew that Jesus was not going to be around much longer. She knew there would always be time to help those in need, but there would not always be time to care for Jesus. And so she did the most loving thing she was able to do for Jesus. She poured an extravagant amount of fragrant perfume on him. Still strange though, isn’t it? Why did Jesus think it was beautiful? Wouldn’t a nice thank you letter be more practical? Perhaps take Jesus and the disciples out to dinner to thank them. Maybe give Jesus a pocket knife with his initials on it? Nope. She chose to pour expensive perfume on Jesus and he thought what she did was loving and beautiful. Why? Well, Jesus tells us why: “She did what she could. She poured perfume on my body beforehand to prepare for my burial.” –Mark 14:8 Why did this woman move Jesus so much? Because she did the only thing she was able to do for Jesus. She didn’t have much money. She didn’t have power. She probably couldn’t read or write. The most precious thing she had was a jar of perfume on her dresser. Maybe she found it. Maybe it was a gift from a relative. But she took it and performed a respectful Jewish custom for the dead on Jesus. She covered his body with a sweet smell for the grave. She did the only thing she was able to do but she did it with great love and it moved Jesus. That’s why it was beautiful. In fact, it moved Jesus so much that he said the most outlandish thing in the world about it! Take a look: “Truly I tell you, wherever the gospel is preached throughout the world, what she has done will also be told, in memory of her.” –Mark 14:9 Can you believe that? Jesus said that what this woman did would make history. He guaranteed this story would always be told when the gospel is preached. And here we are today in 2015 hearing about this woman! So here is the big question. Why did Jesus give that much praise to someone like this? We don’t even know her name! We don’t know who she was. Why did Jesus praise a woman who did such a simple act? Because of five of the most important words in the text: “She did what she could.” The woman simply did what she could for Jesus. She simply gave Jesus what she had. Why is this important? Because doing what we can for Jesus is often the last thing we care to do. You see, this is often what prevents people from serving Jesus more. This is often what causes people to lose their fire. This is often what causes people to become apathetic. It’s too easy to get frustrated about what is not being done or can’t be done for Jesus than it is to just do what can be done. Sometimes we just get stuck thinking about what we wish we could do, hope we could do for Jesus, dream we could do for Jesus, instead of simply doing what we can for Jesus. It’s easier and more romantic to sit in a room and dream dreams of changing our community for Christ than it is to show up and feed the poor or teach a Sunday school class. It’s much easier and more romantic to come up with a plan to double our worship attendance than it is to walk across the street and invite our neighbor to church. It’s much easier to think about how much this awful world needs Jesus than it is to get to know that guy at work with a shady past who just wants someone to listen. It’s much easier and more romantic to talk about how important prayer is than it is to set aside ten minutes each day and pray. It’s easier to talk about how important it is to give and tithe to the church than it is to give some of that extra income we earned to the church instead of to the movie theatre or shopping mall. Doing what we can for Jesus is often the last thing we care to do and this is what is crippling the church and keeping Christians from doing more and growing more. If we as Christians and we as the church would just concentrate and what we can do and do it, we can’t imagine the difference we could make in this world and what a difference it would make to our faith. This is why Jesus praised this woman. It was not because she did something spectacular or powerful or amazing. It was because she simply took what she had to give and did what she could for Jesus. She didn’t waste time thinking about the resources or gifts she wished she had to give to Jesus. She just took a jar of perfume and said, “I will show Jesus how much I love him with this. I will just give him my best.” And that simple act done with great love moved Jesus. All Jesus asks of us is that we do what we can with great love. Jesus is not impressed with critics or dreamers. Jesus is not impressed with elaborate plans and strategies. Jesus is not impressed with a lot of talk. Jesus is not impressed with hours and hours of meetings. Jesus is impressed with action. Just read the gospels. Nowhere do I read that Jesus and the disciples had a committee meeting. Now, don’t get me wrong. Meetings have their place. But so often the church replaces action with meetings and a bunch of talk. Jesus is impressed with action. Today is Mother’s Day and I can’t think of a greater example of what I am talking about than what mothers and mother figures do with great love every day. Mother’s don’t wake up every morning 