ready. He is ready to show you the life he has for you! He is ready to show you the person he has made you to be! Just return to the Father today and ask him for his love and forgiveness. And you can begin your new life today! God created you and wants you to experience his love for you. Start seeing yourself the way God sees you! And start living the abundant life he wants for you. How would you live your life tomorrow if you knew it was going to be your last day? Why not live like that every day? A couple of years ago I was in Atlanta doing doctoral work. It was over a weekend and I had a Sunday off. I woke up that Sunday morning and was exhausted. It was raining outside and I did not have my usual pep. I found a church in which to worship. The minister gave a good sermon. In the sermon he told a true story about himself that I will never forget. He recalled the time his grandfather died. He loved his grandfather very much. He was a strong Christian with a loving spirit. The minister said that his grandfather gave him the encouragement he needed to become a minister. As he sat at his grandfather’s bedside, his grandfather handed him a crinkled up piece of paper. His grandfather was very weak and could not speak, but the minister he knew it was a note from his grandfather. Moments later, his grandfather died. The minister said he vividly remembers walking out of the hospital room with tears in his eyes opening up that crinkled piece of paper. Inside were five words written in pencil by his grandfather: “Always remember who you are.” You are a child of God. You are loved by God. God wants you to have an abundant life. Now live like it. Life is too short to live any other way. I want to end with a poem that puts it all in perspective for us: The Dash I read of a reverend who stood to speak at the funeral of a friend. He referred to the dates on her tombstone from the beginning ... to the end. He noted that first came the date of her birth and spoke of the following date with tears, But he said what mattered most of all was the dash between those years. For that dash represents all the time that she spent alive on earth, And now only those who loved her know what that little line is worth. For it matters not how much we own, the cars, the house, the cash. What matters is how we live and love and how we spend our dash. So think about this long and hard. Are there things you’d like to change? For you never know how much time is left. You could be at dash mid-range. If we could just slow down enough to consider what’s true and real And always try to understand the way other people feel. And be less quick to anger and show appreciation more And love the people in our lives like we’ve never loved before. If we treat each other with respect and more often wear a smile, Remembering that this special dash might only last a little while. So when your eulogy is being read with your life’s actions to rehash, Would you be proud of the things they say about how you spent your dash? -Poem by Linda Ellis (lindaslyrics.com) Pasadena Community Church Life is Too Short to Waste Time Psalm 39: 4 -Sunday, November 8, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Life has a way of presenting us with defining moments. I remember facing a defining moment in my ministry. I went to see a man in the hospital who was dying. He was not active in the church I was serving, but I knew who he was. When I entered his hospital room, his whole family was standing in a semi-circle around his bed. They greeted me, and then the man told his family that he wanted a moment alone with me. So they left us alone. As soon as his family had left, he began to cry. I sat by his bed and began to stroke his hand while he expressed his grief. After a few minutes, I asked him, “Are you afraid?” He said, “No. I feel sure that death will not separate me from Christ.” Then I said, “Then you must be sad about leaving your family.” He replied, “Yeah, but that’s not what is bothering me.” “Then what exactly is it?” I asked. He turned his head away from me, lifted his eyes to hold back the tears, and said four words that still haunt me to this day: “I wasted my life.” Then he began to tell me how he did not do the things he should have done — how he squandered his gifts on possessions, drugs, and alcohol — how he could have done so much more with the life God had given him — how he did not follow the path God had for him. I told him that the grace of God was big enough to cover his regrets. Yet as I left the hospital room, I thought how tragic it would be to come to the end of your life and realize you have wasted it. Imagine for a moment that your life is over, and you are led into a small room. In this room there are two chairs; one for you and one for God (guess who gets the larger chair?). In front of these two chairs are a television and a DVD player. Imagine God coming into the room with a DVD labeled with your name and the title, “What Might Have Been.” Imagine sitting in that room with God and watching the DVD share all that God might have done with your life if you had let him. Imagine seeing what God might have done with your financial resources if you had generously trusted him. Imagine seeing what God might have done with your talents and gifts if you had stepped out in faith and used them. Imagine seeing what God might have done with your relationships if you had given him room to work. Imagine seeing what God might have done with you if you had confronted sin and yielded to God’s empowering grace. Now, I don’t know if God will make us watch a video titled “What Might Have Been.” I hopenot.Itwouldberathercruel.And Iamnot asking you to do this exercise so you will wallow in self-defeat. But I have asked you to do this because we have only one chance to fulfill God’s dream for us. So let me get straight to the point: What have you done with your life up to this point? Do you feel like you have not taken advantage of the life God has given you? Well, take heart, because as long as you have breath, it is not too late. At this very moment, you can make things better! Life is too short to waste time! The psalmist puts it quite well in Psalm 39:4-7: “LORD, remind me how brief my time on earth will be. Remind me that my days are numbered— how fleeting my life is. You have made my life no longer than the width of my hand. My entire lifetime is just a moment to you; at best, each of us is but a breath.” Interlude ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org We are merely moving shadows, and all our busy rushing ends in nothing. We heap up wealth, not knowing who will spend it. And so, Lord, where do I put my hope? My only hope is in you. (NLT) Bronnie Ware was a caretaker for the dying. She became very close to the people she was comforting. Ware quickly discovered that when people are faced with their own mortality they are no longer afraid to be vulnerable. In fact, many people would share their regrets with Ware. She was surprised to hear the same regrets over and over again. She was so taken by these repeated regrets from such a wide range of people that she decided to publish an article on the internet about it. She calls it, “The Five Regrets.” And I can tell you as a pastor who has ministered quite a bit to the dying that she is spot on: 1. I wish I'd had the courage to live a life true to myself, not the life others expected of me. This was the most common regret of all. When folks reach the end of their lives they realize all the dreams they never fulfilled. Now, of course, we can never fulfill all our dreams but many hardly try to fulfill even one! Sometimes it is because of choices to fulfill the expectations of others. Sometimes it is because of fear. So what is holding you back from doing something you love, that you have dreamed of doing? Do it now! Life is too darn short! Publish a book? Skydive? Life may be real short if you do that! Get out of that career and do something you really feel called to do? Start a ministry you have always wanted to do? Do it now! God often works through our dreams and passions. Everything worthwhile in the world began as a dream. Ware writes, “It is very important to try and honor at least some of your dreams along the way. When you lose your health, it is too late. Health brings great freedom. But many folks don’t realize how great that freedom is until they no longer have it.” 2. I wish I didn't work so hard. Man, is this the truth? I have never heard anyone tell me on their death bed that they wish they had spent more time at the office. Yet, how many folks live their lives obsessed with work? Don’t get me wrong. Work can be fulfilling and productive but some folks let it take over their lives and their priorities. Ballet recitals and baseball games are missed. Romantic dates are missed. Worshipping with family is missed. When I counsel couples and families in trouble it is not always affairs or addictions that are the culprits; it is the obsession with work. “You were not here when we needed you!” I love the quote by the Dhali Lama: “Man…sacrifices his health in order to make money. Then he sacrifices money to recuperate his health. And then he is so anxious about the future that he does not enjoy the present; the result being that he does not live in the present or the future; he lives as if he is never going to die, and then dies having never really lived.” Jesus said, “Therefore I tell you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat or drink; or about your body, what you will wear. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothes? Look at the birds of the air; they do not sow or reap or store away in barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not much more valuable than they? Can any one of you by worrying add a single hour to your life?” –Matthew 6:25-27 I know the reality is we have to work. I’m not saying that work is not important. We like to eat and pay our bills. What I am suggesting is all of us can simplify our lives. All of us can take inventory and invest in what and who we care about and spend less time on those things that don’t really matter in the end. What changes do you need to make so you can make time for what is most important? How can you simplify your life? Yesterday we had Dwight McCormick’s funeral. He was a pillar of this church – a man of great character and integrity. He also had a great sense of humor and told wonderful jokes that I could never repeat, at least not in the pulpit! I remember Dwight taking me aside one time and giving me some great advice. I had just told him how busy things were at the church. He said to me, “Charley, life is too precious to work so hard that you don’t have time to enjoy it. You take that beautiful wife of yours and go on vacation. It is just not worth it.” 3. I wish I'd had the courage to express my feelings. Ware writes about the dying, “Many people suppressed their feelings in order to keep peace with others. Many developed illnesses relating to the bitterness and resentment they carried as a result. We cannot control the reactions of others. However, although people may initially react when you change the way you are by speaking honestly, in the end it raises the relationship to a whole new and healthier level. Either that or it releases the unhealthy relationship from your life. Either way, you win.” Amen! Folks, life is too darn short not to express how you feel. Now, don’t be a jerk about it. Speak the truth in love. But there is nothing more exhausting than insincerity. There is nothing more exhausting than being less than real. Be the person God made you to be and express yourself. Ask my staff. They will tell you that the best thing about me is that they never have to wonder where I stand. They always know how I feel about something. I am pretty clear. Look at the Bible. Jesus spoke his mind. So did Thomas and Paul. Look at the Psalmist. He spoke his mind. So did the Prophets! The writers of the Bible were not afraid to express their feelings. We shouldn’t be either! 4. I wish I had stayed in touch with my friends. Ware writes of the dying, “Often they would not truly realize the full benefits of old friends until their dying weeks and it was not always possible to track them down. Many had become so caught up in their own lives that they had let golden friendships slip by over the years. There were many deep regrets about not giving friendships the time and effort that they deserved. Everyone misses their friends when they are dying. “It is common for anyone in a busy lifestyle to let friendships slip. But when you are faced with your approaching death, the physical details of life fall away. People do want to get their financial affairs in order if possible. But it is not money or status that holds the true importance for them. They want to get things in order more for the benefit of those they love. Usually though, they are too ill and weary to ever manage this task. It is all comes down to love and relationships in the end. That is all that remains in the final weeks, love and relationships.” Ware is right. It really all comes down to love and relationships. Why can’t we live our lives out of that knowledge every day? The Apostle Paul said it so well: If I speak in the tongues of men or of angels, but do not have love, I am only a resounding gong or a clanging cymbal. If I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have a faith that can move mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing. If I give all I possess to the poor and give over my body to hardship that I may boast, but do not have love, I gain nothing…Now faith, hope and love, abide these three. But the greatest of these is love. -1st Corinthians 13:1-3,13 5. I wish that I had let myself be happier. Ware writes, “This is a surprisingly common one. Many did not realize until the end that happiness is a choice. They had stayed stuck in old patterns and habits. The so-called 'comfort' of familiarity overflowed into their emotions, as well as their physical lives. Fear of change had them pretending to others, and to their selves, that they were content. When deep within, they longed to laugh properly and have silliness in their life again. “When you are on your deathbed, what others think of you is a long way from your mind. How wonderful to be able to let go and smile again, long before you are dying. Life is a choice. It is YOUR life. Choose consciously, choose wisely, choose honestly. Choose happiness.” What’s holding you back from living the dreams God has put on your heart, simplifying your life, speaking your mind, making love and relationships a priority and allowing yourself to be happy? Because I’ll tell you one thing, God wants all of that for you! The climactic scene in the Parable of Prodigal Son says it all: “So he returned home to his father. And while he was still a long way off, his father saw him coming. Filled with love and compassion, he ran to his son, embraced him, and kissed him…. his father said to the servants, ‘Quick! Bring the finest robe in the house and put it on him. Get a ring for his finger and sandals for his feet. 23 And kill the calf we have been fattening. We must celebrate with a feast, for this son of mine was dead and has now returned to life. He was lost, but now he is found.’ So the party began. -Luke 15:20, 22-24 You want to know one of the morals of this story: You can go home again! Have you lost your way? Have you forgotten your worth? Have you lost sight of the life you want to live? Have you forgotten who you are? Is your life broken? Just run back to the Heavenly Father and he will be running toward you! He is ready to throw his arms around you and tell the Angels to get the party 