PASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org Pasadena Community Church What is Heaven Like? John 14: 1 -Sunday, November 1 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Today I want to talk to you about heaven and why it matters. One of the central beliefs of Christianity is that disciples of Jesus Christ will spend eternity with God in heaven. Jesus said, “I am the resurrection and I am the life. Those who believe in me, even though they die, yet shall they live.” This means if we put our trust in Christ and follow him we are promised everlasting life with him in heaven. But what is heaven really? Is it a place where angels play harps on clouds and St. Peter stands at the gate letting people in? The whole idea of heaven is caricatured in our culture, but what will it really be like? I bet you have the same questions I have. Will I know my loved ones in heaven? And will they know me? I hope so. I miss my father and I hope he knows me in heaven. And I am sure you have loved ones you miss and hope to see again. And what will we do in heaven? Just sit in church and listen to an organ being played all day? Will there be golf in heaven? And what about our pets? That’s important. Do our pets go to heaven? And what about our bodies? Will we be like ghosts floating around in the clouds or will we have physical bodies? And is heaven a physical place or does it exist in a spiritual dimension? Perhaps the most important question for us today is why is heaven so important right now? What difference does heaven make in our lives today? Christians are often accused of being so heavenly minded that they are “no earthly good.” Does believing in heaven make a difference to how we live our day to day lives? Should it make any difference? I want to jump right in and answer these important questions because believe it or not the Bible answers many of the questions we have about heaven. So often we make assumptions about heaven without really looking at what the Bible has to say. So, I want us to take a look at a passage of scripture that is near to the heart of many of us. It is the beginning of the 14th chapter of John. These are Jesus’ words to his disciples in the upper room before he is taken away to be crucified. He was about to face his own death. He knew it. The disciples are afraid. They just found out that their fellow disciple Judas betrayed Jesus. They are not sure about their own fate. So, sensing their fear and unrest, Jesus speaks these words to his disciples. These are some of the most beautiful and comforting words in the Bible. Verse one: “Do not let your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me.” The context of this passage has to do with death – Jesus’ death and our own death. Jesus is saying that when it comes to death we have nothing to fear! If we believe in him, if we have put our lives in his hands, we have nothing to fear from death. We can live life boldly and courageously! And that is so ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~Servedifferent than the world isn’t it? Our culture is terrified of death. Many people don’t want to think or talk about death. But those who follow Christ are not afraid to die. It doesn’t mean we live life foolishly but it does mean we are confident in the face of death. Why should we not be afraid of death? Christ gives us the answer in verse two: “In my Father’s house are many dwelling places. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you?” Oh, wow! Jesus says his Father has a house. God has a house. Can you imagine how big that house is? Imagine the square footage of that one? What is God’s house? Heaven! But when Jesus says God’s house has many dwelling places he means this house is not just for God. God’s house has an infinite number of guest rooms! What’s more is that Jesus says he will prepare a special place for each one of us in heaven. So what will this place be like? If Jesus is preparing a place in heaven for his followers it must be pretty sweet, huh? Well, in other places in scripture we are given a breathtaking glimpse of what our heavenly place will be like. Isaiah has two wonderful things to say about the Kingdom of Heaven. He tells us: “They will beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more” (2:4). This means in heaven hate will not exist, war will not exist, violence will not exist and bloodshed will not exist. God’s creation will be at peace! This implies that heaven includes a renewed earth. The world will be healed. Isaiah also says this about heaven: “The wolf will lie down with the lamb, and the leopard will lie down with the goat, the calf and the lion and the yearling together; and a little child shall lead them.” (11:6-9). Notice the contrasts in this verse – wolves lying down with lambs, leopards lying down with goats and children running the show? We know this does not happen in our world. What does this mean? The virtues of heaven will be different than the virtues of world. The virtues in heaven will not be competition, survival of the fittest, exclusion or intimidation, but love, trust, peace, harmony, joy and play! Oh, since animals are mentioned in this verse, we have it on good authority that our pets will go to heaven too! The book of Revelation contains one of the most touching descriptions about heaven: “See, the home of God is among mortals. He will dwell with them. They will be his people, and God himself with be with them. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Death will be no more; mourning and crying and pain will be no more, for the first things have passed away” (21:3-4). This tells us that in heaven we will dwell with God. We will experience intimacy with God and be in His presence forever. God will wipe away our tears and there will be no more suffering. This means that in heaven there will be no cancer, disease, abuse, hunger, poverty, or death. Now, if all this is true, what kind of shape will we be in heaven? Will we have physical bodies or spiritual bodies? Well, Jesus addresses this in verse 3 of John 14: “And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, so that where I am, there you may be also.” Jesus is talking about his resurrection. When Jesus was resurrected he wasn’t some ghost. He had a physical body. He asked Thomas to touch him. He asked his disciples for some fish. Later, Jesus said, “Because I live you will live.” This means that just as Jesus experienced a physical resurrection so will we. When Jesus comes back to usher us into heaven we will receive new and improved bodies just like him! This sounds exciting, but will other people be able to recognize us? If we have new bodies will loved ones know who we are? Paul addresses this very issue in 2nd Corinthians 4:16-18: “So we do not lose heart. Even though our outer nature is wasting away, our inner nature is being renewed day by day.” In other words, our physical bodies break down – we get sick and we die. But with the help of God our souls are growing stronger. Paul continues, “For this slight momentary affliction is preparing us for an eternal weight of glory beyond all measure.” The affliction Paul is speaking of is the pain and tragedy of life. But God uses our adversity to stretch and strengthen our inner nature. The adversity is not His will but God uses our experiences to grow us spiritually. And our spiritual growth is preparing us for an eternal weight of glory. This “weight of glory” is what God thinks of us. The weight of glory is that moment when God throws his arms around us and says, “I am so proud of you! I love you.” Watch what Paul says next: “Because we look not at what can be seen but at what cannot be seen; for what can be seen is temporary, but what cannot be seen is eternal.” You know what this verse implies? People will know who we are in heaven because in heaven who we are on the inside today will be seen on the outside. Our beauty in heaven is something totally different than on earth. We will all be beautiful in heaven because who we are on the inside will be visible on the outside. Our character, our strength, our growth, our faithfulness, our love, our sensitivity will be seen on the outside, and it will be gorgeous. This is what Paul meant in 1st Corinthians 13, “I will know fully, even as I have been fully known.” So, why does belief in heaven matter? Why does it matter that we believe we are going to heaven? Because Christian character is eternal. Who we are today and how we behave as a result of who we are has eternal significance. The decisions we make today -how we grow today -how we respond to adversity and suffering -the consistency of our prayer life will make up who we are in heaven. You see, heaven is the pay off for all of the spiritual work we have done on earth. Don’t let this mess up your theology. We are saved by God’s grace in Christ and through trust in that grace we are given eternal life. But the Bible is clear that when we get to heaven we will receive “recompense” (2nd Corinthians 5:10) for who we are and what we have done. We will receive what we have spiritually built up for ourselves on earth. So, how we behave as Christians on earth not only matters now but it also matters in heaven. Everything on earth is fleeting. Paul says what can be seen is temporary. What cannot be seen is eternal. Our bodies, our money, our vanity, our possessions – they don’t last. What lasts is God and our character before God. What lasts is what we have done for God on earth and our presence before God in glory. And we groan for it. Paul says in our passage today that while we live in this temporary tent we groan for our new body, our new life, our glorious existence with God in heaven. We know that all the pain and suffering is not worth comparing with what we will experience with God in heaven. So we never lose heart. Christian character is eternal. You know the most important word in the Christian faith? Hope. Only the Christian faith can give us hope. Only the Christian faith gives us hope that what we do now has eternal significance. Only the Christian faith gives us the hope to never fear death. Only the Christian faith gives us hope that death is our victory. In heaven all of God’s promises we have lived for, worked for, groaned for will become reality. Jesus said, “I go to prepare a place for you.” Amen 