Where there is sadness, joy. O divine Master, grant that I may not so much seek To be consoled as to console, To be understood as to understand, To be loved as to love; For it is in giving that we receive; It is in pardoning that we are pardoned; It is in dying to self that we are born to eternal life. I want to close with a heartwarming story that will ease your stress and make you feel good. Veteran’s Day was this week. And, of course, Wheel of Fortune did not forget that. Nura Fountano was on the show this week playing alongside fellow service members. She was the leader heading into the last round but during the last puzzle of the game her guesses left some viewers confused. She called out the letters Q, Z and X and took too much time twice losing her turns. Well, one of the service men ended up solving the puzzle. The puzzle was “Following Footsteps.” Clearly, she was doing everything she could to allow the other vets on the show to win some money. She was successful. Pat Sajak was suspicious and said to Nura, “You called some unusual letters in the round?” Nura said, “Well, that’s what I saw.” Sajak replied, “That was an unsatisfactory answer… but she is not under oath!” Nura’s answer may have been unsatisfactory but her kindness was nothing but pure class. In fact, whether she realized it or not, her act was indeed “following the footsteps” of Jesus who is our rock and our redeemer. It is that kind of love and grace that will keep our souls together through the storms of life. Amen. ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org Pasadena Community Church Life is Too Short to Be Stressed Matthew 7: 24-27 Sunday, November 15, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Today is part two in our series Life is too Short. Last week I emphasized that we need to live the abundant life God calls us to live now because life is too short. Experience God’s love. Live the dreams God has put on your heart. Live life to the fullest because that is what God wants for you. Life is just too short to live any other way. Our Psalm for the series is Psalm 39:4-7. Let’s read it together: “LORD, remind me how brief my time on earth will be. Remind me that my days are numbered— how fleeting my life is. You have made my life no longer than the width of my hand. My entire lifetime is just a moment to you; at best, each of us is but a breath.” We are merely moving shadows, and all our busy rushing ends in nothing. We heap up wealth, not knowing who will spend it. And so, Lord, where do I put my hope? My only hope is in you. (NLT) Well that Psalm is not only appropriate for our series, it is appropriate for us as we think about the horrific attacks in Paris. Life can be so fleeting and our only hope is in the Lord! Today’s topic is stress. Life is too short to be stressed. If there ever was an appropriate topic for us today, it is this one. What occurred in Paris has us stressed out to say the least! We are stressed, worried, afraid, terrified and overwhelmed. So there is great tension in this topic because what happened in Paris reminds us of how short life can be! So how do we reconcile that one, right? What if we get stressed out because of the reality that life is too short? I am sure that is a question on some of your minds. How can we not be stressed out with this kind of evil going on in the world? But maybe on top of all this you also have stress closer to home. You have financial troubles, family problems, issues at work or school. Maybe as you think about Thanksgiving coming up you are thinking about the stress of being with all of the family. Crazy Uncle George will show up again. Or the in laws are coming and they are going to say or do those things that drive you nuts! Just fill in the blank. I get it. You show me a family that doesn’t have at least some dysfunction and I will show you some pretty good liars! Everywhere we turn in life there is stress – work, family, school, kids, finances. Then we get on Face Book or turn on the news and we are terrified at what we see. Life is filled with stress and worry. So how are we not supposed to get stressed out? “How are you going to preach this sermon, preacher?” Believe me, I get it. Brandy and I went on a date Friday night. Life has been so busy for both of us and we were way overdue. Things have been crazy at the church and things have been crazy for her at work. We needed a relaxing evening together. So we went out and had a nice dinner and then we played Putt-Putt. We hadn’t done that in years! The weather was nice and cool. I even got a hole in one! We were having a ball. But as soon as we finished we looked at our phones and got the news about Paris. We didn’t want it too, but it took the wind from our sails. How could it not? I’ll tell you this whole week has been stressful for me! It started with that Starbucks nonsense and then ended with the tragedy in Paris. What do both of these stories have in common? People distorting religion yet again! That’s what stresses me out! Yeah, the easy thing to do is to be angry at a religion. But it is not religion that should be our focus; it is the people who distort religion that should be our focus. When the story about the Starbucks cups came out this week I thought it was a satire, a joke. And then I found out it was real. Some off his rocker Christian decided to go on a ridiculous crusade about how the new plain red holiday Starbucks cups are a protest against Christmas and that Christians are being persecuted? Why? Because Starbucks decided not to put snowmen or snowflakes on their cups this year. Seriously? First of all, did anyone bother to tell this guy that snowflakes and snowmen are not Christian symbols? Last time I read the gospels I didn’t see Frosty the Snowman around Jesus in the manger! Furthermore, Starbucks sells Christmas items all over their store – Christmas coffee blends and Christmas mugs. Last but not least, the last time I checked red and green are Christmas colors! And then we wonder why some people want nothing to do with Christianity or the church? We’ve got a world filled with hurting and broken people who need the love of Christ and you want to get your underwear in a wad over coffee cups from a secular business? Here’s one for you: “If one family in one out of every three churches adopted a child from foster care, there would be no more orphans in the United States. But please, tell me more about how offensive this red coffee cup is” (quote from Face Book). Lord, save us from some of your followers! This whole war on Christmas thing has got me stressed out too. Yeah, I know. I need this sermon. People need to know our history. People fled to America for religious freedom. The hallmark of America is that people can practice their religion in peace without the threat of persecution. Freedom of religion means the freedom to practice our religion and the freedom for others to practice their religion. When someone practices their religion next to yours it is not war or persecution. It is called America! It is called liberty! It is called what our veteran died and sacrificed for! Ignorance is going to destroy this country if people don’t wake up. I am stressed out over this stuff, so I need this sermon more than anyone today. You know what a sermon is, don’t you? “A preacher speaking loudly to himself.” And I am doing that today! Of course, the stress is compounded by the unspeakable events in Paris. And it is not just how awful and horrific the events were that stresses me out. It is how it will fuel the fire of hate in some Christians and cause them to pigeon hole a religion because of the evil acts of a small minority. Let’s remember our religious history. Blood is on the hands of all religions, not because of the religion, but because of the sinful hearts of those who pervert religion. Remember what Martin Luther King, Jr. said, “Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do that.” So I am stressed out! And I need to know how God and the scriptures can help me not be so stressed out. How about you? You want to join me today in finding some help? I know life is too short to be stressed out, so Lord help us find out how! As I was praying and reflecting on this sermon, a passage came to me and I think it might be exactly what we need today. The text comes from Matthew chapter 7. It is a portion of the greatest sermon ever preached, “The Sermon on the Mount”: “Everyone then who hears these words of mine and acts on them will be like a wise man who built his house on rock. The rain fell, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did not fall, because it had been founded on rock.” –Matthew 7:24-25 So Jesus gives us a metaphor that all of us here in Florida can relate to, especially those who have flood insurance and have lived through a hurricane! Jesus said that someone who not only hears his teachings but acts on them, does them, puts them into practice, will be like someone who was wise enough to build his house on a firm foundation, so that when the storms and wind and rain came the house remained strong and standing. But then Jesus gives us another example. Take a look: And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not act on them will be like a foolish man who built his house on sand. The rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell—and great was its fall!” –Matthew 7:24-27 Alright, so Jesus says unlike the first man who was wise enough to build his house on rock, this other guy, this foolish guy, built his house on sand so when the rain, wind, storms came it fell down like a house of cards. And why? Because unlike the wise man, the foolish man heard Jesus’ teaching but did not act on it. In other words, he did not follow Jesus. So we can conclude from what Jesus said that if we want to remain strong through the stresses and storms of life here’s what we have to do: We have to build our lives around Jesus and what he has taught us. We must follow Jesus. If we want to remain standing when the winds of change blow we have to base our lives on more than platitudes and hallmark cards and wishful thinking. We must build our lives on Jesus and his teachings. For if we follow Jesus our lives will be built on a foundation that never collapses, fails, falls, or wavers. If we build our lives on the sand of selfishness, greed, vanity, power or pleasure our lives will eventually collapse. Sooner or later the storms and stresses of life are going to come and if we have built our lives on a shallow foundation we will collapse. The stress will get the better of us. We will fall. Our moral structure will collapse. Our internal compass will go haywire. We will be a ship without a rudder. But if we base our lives on following Jesus, we will always remain standing strong no matter what life throws at us. So my question for all of us today is: What are we building our lives on? Take inventory of your life today. What is your life built on? Is it built on ambition or greed or on the love and generosity of Christ? Is it built on seeking pleasure or is it built on serving others? Is it built on selfishness or is it built on the sacrificial love of Christ? These are important questions because here is what I want you to remember today: If we follow Jesus the storm may be around us but the storm does not have to be in us. Jesus is stronger than the storm and stronger than the stress and stronger than evil. Jesus is stronger than sin and stronger than death. If we fill our soul with Jesus nothing can penetrate it because Jesus is the one who calms the storm, heals the broken, releases the captives, gives sight of the blind, sets people free from bondage, redeems the unredeemable and loves the unlovable. Jesus is stronger than any stress or worry you bring with you to worship today. Jesus came to this earth looked death and evil in the face and laughed and said, “I have risen and you can’t stop me!” Jesus is the only solid rock you can build your life on. Call on him and he will deliver you, he will give you peace in the midst of the storm, and he will heal the broken places in your life. So if you are stressed out today just put your trust in Jesus, put your life in his hands. Fix what you can control and give Jesus what you can’t control. On a practical level how do we build our lives on Jesus so that we remain strong in the midst of stresses and strains of life? We know trusting our lives to him is a big part of it. But there is more to it. Jesus is clear in his teaching today that we must act on what he has taught us, not just hear it. And in order for us remain strong on the midst of this present darkness we are facing there is a particular teaching of Jesus we must act on to remain steady and strong: Love. We must fight hate with love! I believe Jesus wants us to show the world right now that love wins! On a personal level you know what I have found to be the best cure for stress? To get out of myself and love somebody. Just find someone to love and care for. Channel the energy of your stress into loving someone who desperately needs love. Loving someone in Jesus’ name will absorb all the stress inside of you. The Bible says that “perfect love casts out fear.” So start loving those around you, especially the unlovable. Be the light that overcomes the darkness. Mother Theresa said, “Let no one ever come to you without leaving better or happier. Be the living expression of God’s kindness. Kindness in your face. Kindness in your eyes. Kindness in your smile.” I believe an appropriate prayer for us to repeat and live out now is The Prayer of Saint Francis. Let’s say this together: The Prayer of Saint Francis Lord, make me an instrument of thy peace. Where there is hatred, let me sow love; Where there is injury, pardon; Where there is doubt, faith; Where there is despair, hope; Where there is darkness, light; 