body of Christ. Paul addresses this issue in 1st Corinthians 12 when he tells us the church is like a body and the ear never says to the foot that it has no need for it. No, we all play a key role in the body of Christ and we need each other. Together, by the power of God, we achieve more for God. The gospel is not something that just floats around on its own. It is rooted, sustained, supported and organized by the church through the power of Holy Spirit. It is my conviction that everybody ought to know that God is love. Everybody ought to know that Jesus saves. Everybody ought to know the power of forgiveness. Everybody ought to know that trouble does not last forever. Everyone ought to know the joy of serving others. How can they know unless there is a community of faith that is bold enough to point to Christ as the answer? Howard Olds once said, “The Church can be a mighty force for good moving people toward faith, hope, and love. It can sound the trumpet for peace above the rumblings of war. It can call attention to the least when everybody is wanting more.” My question is: If you are a Christian, give me a darn good reason why you don’t want to be a part of that! #5 -“They are always asking for money.” I remember someone coming up to me in another church I served and saying, “It is a lot easier to be a visitor of a church than a member, isn’t it? As a visitor you get the best parking spaces. You are not obligated to serve on a committee or serve a project. Most of all, you don’t feel pressured to give money or turn in a pledge card.” I said, “You are right! The Church is not a country club. Anyone can receive the benefits of our church with no pressure of commitment. We do not charge people when they walk in the door. Our services and ministries are free.” So why would anyone in their right mind assume responsibility for the church? Those of you who have made a commitment to the church know why. Deep down you want to be committed to a partnership that is making a difference in the world. Deep down you want to be part of a body of people that is transforming this world with the love of Christ. And you know the church needs your resources to make it happen. The inscription on the Statue of Liberty says, “Give us your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.” Those words need to be inscribed on the door of every church. That is what the Church is about. Why go to church? Why be active in a church? Because the church is God’s best hope for the world and the church can’t be the church without your commitment. Amen. Pasadena Community Church Saints Alive! Living Generously (Part 2) John 15: Sunday, October 18, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor I am the vine; you are the branches. If you remain in me and I in you, you will bear much fruit; apart from me you can do nothing. – John 15:5 Jesus is very clear in our text for today. If we, as the church, will abide in him we will bear fruit. Christ is the vine and we are the branches. The branches represent the church. As the church, we are intimately connected to Christ and nourished by him to bear fruit. Notice Jesus does not say we might bear fruit or we should bear fruit or there is a possibility we will bear fruit. Jesus does not say that if the weather is right we will bear fruit or if it is convenient we will bear fruit. No. Jesus says if we are truly followers of his we will grow and bear fruit. We will grow in our faith and find our mission. The problem in our culture today is that fewer and fewer Christians see the church the way Christ sees the church. Fewer and fewer Christians love the church the way God loves the church. Fewer and fewer Christians have a commitment to the church and make growing in their faith a priority. The biggest issue confronting the church today is not immorality, sin, worship wars, ethical issues, polity, or corruption. The biggest issue confronting the church today is the growing lack of commitment among the followers of Jesus Christ! We have plenty of admirers of Jesus – those who will tip their hat to Jesus from time to time – those who call themselves fans and throw a dollar in the plate twice a year. But Jesus does not want fans; Jesus wants followers. Jesus does not want admirers; Jesus wants disciples. For many Christians, commitment to Christ and the church is seen as somewhat of a hobby, an option when the mood is right. “If we don’t have weekend plans we will do God a favor and make it to worship….If the kids don’t have soccer or we don’t get a better offer we will sign up to serve some ministry as long as it fits our schedule…And if we have some money left over after our trips and toys, we may give some of it to the church…Oh and pastor I know I haven’t been active in the church for awhile and I gave up that Bible study because I lost interest, but I don’t feel very close to God right now…I have thirty minutes. Can you fix me in thirty minutes?” I agree with the late George Buttrick who said, “Sheep are usually not stolen from the flock, they just nibble themselves away.” Too many Christians base their commitment to Christ and the church on whether or not they “feel like it.” Can you imagine what would happen if the rest of the world operated that way? Imagine the fireman saying, “I just don’t feel like putting out fires today.” Imagine the surgeon saying, “I just don’t feel like performing surgery today.” Imagine the tired mother awakened in the middle of the night by a crying baby saying, “I just don’t feel like feeding the baby.” The world would come to a screeching halt! Yet, when it comes to serving the King of Kings, many folks do it only when they feel like it. So how are you doing? What is your level of commitment? Those of you who joined the church took a vow. You said you would support your church with your prayers, presence, gifts, ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org service and witness. How are you doing with that? Christ died for us and set us free! Do we really have to ponder whether or not we should be faithful? Do we really have to give a second thought to whether or not we should abide in him and grow in our faith? You see, somewhere along the line the paradigm shifted within the church. I believe it has happened over the last 30 years or so as consumerism has taken over our culture. The predominant attitude of the church today is not being the body of Christ in the world or making disciples or being a beacon of hope in the midst of a dark world. The predominant attitude in the church today is “It’s all about me!” It is comical when you put it in perspective. What if I ran out to Tropicana Field today and asked to see the manager of the stadium and said, “I am giving up baseball. I am never coming here again and I am going to tell you why: Every time I went they asked me for money. The people I sat next to weren't very friendly and didn't speak to me. The seats were too hard and not very comfortable. I went to many games but the coach never came to visit me. The coach made a decision that I didn't like. I don’t like the food and concessions you offer. Too much junk and not enough salad. Some games went into overtime and I had to wait in line at the restaurant. The music you play between innings is too loud and I have never heard it before. It seems like the games are always scheduled when I want to do something else. I recently read a book on sports, and now I feel that I know more than the coaches do anyhow.” Can you imagine? We laugh, but do you realize that is the attitude many people have about the church? It is all about them. They want to come to the show but they don’t want to grow. Somehow the church has turned inward and become a glorified event center -catering to everyone’s needs. Now, there is a place in the church for meeting needs, but, folks, not every need is healthy or important. Sometimes the church’s job is to say, “That need is really not important. What you really need is to get off your behind and serve Jesus. That will fix half of your problems!” Of course, people will stake make excuses, and I have a heard every one in the book. In fact, I want to lift up the top five excuses I have heard for not committing to the church. And I am about to debunk each one! Hold on to your seats because I have something to offend everyone! #1 -“I believe in God; I am spiritual. I just don’t believe in organized religion.” I hear this quite a bit. In fact, not a month goes by when I don’t hear this a few times as I get out into the community. If I am in a salty mood, my response is usually, “You don’t believe in organized religion? What you would like instead? Unorganized religion?” The truth is unorganized religion is no match for organized evil! Evil is out there and believe me it is organized. How are we to overcome it if we are unorganized? We romanticize organized crime, don’t we? We have TV shows, movies and books glorifying organized crime. We think it is fascinating. Yet, some people are turned off by the people of God organizing themselves to bring hope and healing to the world? When there is a natural disaster, we expect FEMA and The Red Cross to be organized. When there is a threat to our country, we expect our military to be organized. When our country has needs, we expect the government to be organized. When we go to the bank to withdraw money, we expect it to be organized. When we go to our favorite grocery store or restaurant, we expect it to be organized, or we will go to another place that is. When we check into the hospital for surgery, we expect the doctors and nurses to be organized! Yet, when the one institution in the world that is called and ordained by God to heal the world gets organized people are turned off by it? Given the sufferings of this world and what God has called the church to do, the church should be the most organized institution in the world! Because we have the most important job in the world – to be vessels of God’s love, hope and healing! A close reading of history shows that when God does anything significant in this world it is not done through politics, talk radio, fads, or through secular institutions; it is done through the organized body of Christ. #2 -“The Church is filled with a bunch of hypocrites.” Maybe you have a neighbor or relative that comes over to your house every holiday and criticizes the church. Perhaps they bring up the same litany – the Inquisition, the Salem witch trials, the corruption of clergy, etc. Maybe some of them tell you they used to go to church but they got their fingers caught in the machinery of the church and have never been back. Someone got mad at them or they got mad at someone and, to their surprise, they discovered that the church is made up of imperfect people. Allow me to let the cat out of the bag for you this morning. The church is made up of imperfect people because, as the old saying goes, “the church is a hospital for sinners, not a museum for saints.” There is no such thing as the perfect church. I often find people who are searching for the perfect church. My response is always the same: “There is no such thing as the perfect church. But if you find the perfect church and join it, it will not be perfect anymore!” Why did Jesus come? Think about it. Jesus did not come for perfect people. He came for imperfect people. You don’t need a bath if you are clean. Jesus came to seek and save the lost – to bring healing and wholeness to broken people. The church is not perfect, but we know the one who is perfect and he is working in our lives. Even though the church is not perfect, she is still the greatest thing God has going for Him in this world and if God is going to do something profound in this world He will do it through His church. Through our imperfections, the power of God is revealed. #3 -“I can experience God on the golf course or in the mountains or on the beach.” This one always reminds me of that old joke about the preacher who wanted to play golf on Sunday instead of preach. He called his associate on Saturday night and feigned sickness. His associate graciously agreed to preach. The next morning the preacher got up, threw his clubs into his car and drove to the golf course. When he got to the first par 3 he struck the ball perfectly and it dropped into the hole for a hole in one! St. Peter looked up at God and asked, “Why would you allow one of your ministers who is playing hooky to get a hole in one?” God replied, “Peter, who is he going to tell?” Number three is a popular one. I hear it quite a bit. I don’t doubt it. I believe we can experience God in creation. However, sooner or later in life each of us will need the wisdom, support, love, connection and accountability of others. And when that need arises where do we go? I never heard of a golf course that saved a marriage. I never heard of a mountain that helped someone overcome an addiction. I never heard of a beach that helped someone find answers to their most troubling questions. I never heard of boat that helped someone develop a growing relationship with Jesus Christ. But you know what? I know that the church has done all these things! What happened after 9/11? Did people run to the mountains, play golf, or go to the beach? No! They went to church! People who never darkened the door of a church before in their lives flocked to church. Why? Because they needed hope. They needed the touch and love of understanding people. Most of all, they needed a strength and a wisdom beyond themselves. They needed God. And they knew the church was the only institution in the world that could provide what they needed. The questions are always the same: Why do bad things happen to good people? Where is God when it hurts? What is the purpose of my life? Where is the answer to the riddle of suffering? Why is hate so strong? How come good people go bad? Where do you go when you have these questions? You go to church? You need to connect to real loving people who know a real loving God. #4 – “I can be a Christian without going to church.” Sure, you can be a Christian without going to church, but not a very good one! I don’t know any Christian who is growing and serving effectively who is not active in a local church. In fact, I challenge anyone to find me one person who is a healthy Christian who is not active in a church. We will never achieve Christian maturity apart from Christian community. We need more than our own frame of reference. We need more influence than just a few like minded friends. We need the church. There is no such thing as an isolated Christian. It is biblically impossible. Once you receive Christ as Savior you are grafted into the 