PASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org Pasadena Community Church WHY? ~ More Than Conquerors! Romans 8: 24-38 Sunday, October 4, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Those of you on Facebook probably noticed that the famous Facebook hoax made its rounds again this week, claiming more victims. It's amazing how many people fall for it every time. The hoax pops up every year or so and despite numerous warnings that it is a hoax people just can’t help themselves. Basically, the hoax says that unless you post a particular legal notice on your page all of your information will be owned by Facebook. Another part of the hoax claims that unless you post a notice on your page desiring to use Facebook for free they will start charging you. None of this is true, but out of fear people still fall for it. Well I decided to have some fun and post a satirical response to this hoax I found on my page, just so folks could see how gullible they were. I don't know who wrote it but it is brilliant: Very Important Facebook Notice! Please read! Important: Facebook will begin stealing your undergarments at midnight tonight if you don't copy & paste this message in the next 37 seconds, forward it to everyone in your mailing list, print a hard copy for your grandmother & call your third grade teacher. This is real. I got the message first hand from Elvis who was having lunch with Bigfoot, while riding the Loch Ness monster. It was even on the inside back cover of every tabloid in the grocery store checkout line. Not only is the above going to happen, but Facebook will start charging you tomorrow. They are also going to bill your credit card for the past 3 years of services. Luckily, each person who copies & pastes this status will receive a FREE unicorn in the mail tomorrow. However, if you don't repost this status, Facebook code has been set up to automatically set your computer on fire & harm an innocent bunny in the forest! It's all true. It was on the news! It's official! Facebook users will believe anything their friends copy & paste into their status!:) Had to do this because I WANT a free unicorn! Well, I had a friend on Facebook who loved my post so much that she mailed me something very special. This is unicorn meat and it promises magic in every bite! The nutrition information says there is 100 percent eternal happiness in each portion! Wouldn’t it be wonderful if life worked like that? It would be nice if we could just avoid trouble and problems in life by posting a notice on our Facebook page. It would be nice if a legal notice posted on our page would give us nothing but good stuff like magical unicorns. But that's not how life works. In fact, there is an old saying, “You are either coming out of trouble, in the middle of trouble, or about to get into trouble.” That's life. God never promises us a trouble free life. That's why I no longer ask "Why me?" I ask "Why not me?" But the Bible does promise us that we can live with confidence and strength each day, no matter what we face. We can live without fear or dread of what might be coming around the corner. We can have peace within regardless of the storms outside of us. We can laugh in the midst of trouble. Does that sound good? You see, I don't want to just end this series with your questions of why answered. I want us to end this series with you ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~Servefeeling equipped to live your life with confidence. I want you to be ready for anything that life might throw at you. I want you to live your life not motivated by fear but faith. I want you to enjoy the life God has for you and not live in dread about what tomorrow may bring. That's no way to live and that's not how God wants us to live. I imagine most of you would like to live life this way. I'm sure many of you are sick and tired of slugging through life, being defined by your pain and suffering. You don't want life to simply consist of surviving the day, waiting for the weekend, or trying to find a few moments of peace. You want life to be more than just avoiding as much trouble as you can. You want your life to be full of joy even in the most trying of circumstances. In short, you want to live on the offensive not on the defensive. You don't want to be a victim; you want to be a victor! Well, guess what? You can have that life! How? Well by learning and applying some biblical wisdom I want to share with you today. If you want to turn your trouble into triumph and your rough times into glory pay attention today and apply the biblical wisdom you are about to learn. So where do we find this wisdom? In Romans 8: Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall trouble or hardship or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword?...No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. -Romans 8: 35, 37 "More than Conquerors." These are three of the most powerful words in all of the Bible. Paul uses these three words to describe how Christians respond to pain and adversity. What does it mean? Why didn't Paul just say “God will give you the strength to get through it. One day you will get the better of it. You will conquer it. You will have victory over it.” Paul doesn't do that. He doesn't say, "There, there. It will all be over soon. This too shall pass." No, Paul takes one more giant step and says that we as Christians are "More than Conquerors" through pain and suffering. We do more than just get through it. We do more than just overcome it. We do more than conqueror it. We do more than have victory over it. How can we more than conqueror something? Take a closer look at this phrase. Paul combines the Greek words "hyper" and "nikao” to create the phrase “more than conquerors.” “Hyper means super, beyond, surpassing and “nikao” means victorious. So Paul is basically saying we are "Super Victorious!" We are victory on steroids! We are super victors. Super overcomers! In other words, we don't just win. We just don't have victory. Our trouble makes us stronger. We have stronger faith, more wisdom and greater love for Christ and others. We emerge stronger after the battle. We don’t just conquer. We are more than conquerors because we are stronger by God’s grace and power. God uses the resistance of our trouble to build strength in us. Take a look at James 1:2-4: Consider it pure joy, my brothers and sisters, sisters, whenever you face trials of many kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith produces perseverance. Let perseverance finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking anything. -James 1:2-4 We apply this principle in strength training. What gives us stronger muscles? Resistance. Whether you are lifting weights or using a “resistance” band, you are using resistance to build strength. The same principle applies to our spiritual lives. There is only one thing that builds strength. Resistance! Strength does not develop without resistance. Plain and simple. We have to resist the trouble in our lives with God’s help in order to get stronger and move forward. Here is a great story that illustrates my point. Take a look at “Dusty the Donkey.” One day a farmer's donkey fell down into a well that the farmer had accidentally left uncovered. The animal cried piteously for hours as the farmer tried to figure out what to do. Finally, he decided the animal was old, and the well needed to be covered up anyway, so it just wasn't worth it to retrieve the donkey. He invited all his neighbors to come over and help him. They all grabbed a shovel and began to shovel dirt into the well. At first, the donkey realized what was happening and cried horribly. Then, to everyone's amazement he quieted down. A few shovel loads later, the farmer finally looked down the well. He was astonished at what he saw. With each shovel of dirt that hit his back, the donkey was doing something amazing. He would shake it off and take a step up. As the farmer's neighbors continued to shovel dirt on top of the animal, he would shake it off and take a step up. Pretty soon, everyone was amazed as the donkey stepped up over the edge of the well and happily trotted off! The moral of the story is life is going to shovel dirt on you, all kinds of dirt. The trick to getting out of the well is to shake it off and take a step up. Each of our troubles is a steppingstone. We can get out of the deepest wells just by not stopping, never giving up! Shake it off and take a step up. The Bible calls this, “Working out our salvation.” In God’s eyes, our troubles are stepping stones to stronger faith and spiritual stamina. We build spiritual strength by exercising resistance to the problems, pain and pressures of life. Adversity builds in us spiritual strength to overcome the next time trouble comes. But in order to build that spiritual strength we must exercise resistance not with our own power but by the power of God who lives within us! If you never practice using God’s power in your life in the midst of trouble and adversity you will never know what you are capable of with God’s power. But when we use God’s power to withstand in the midst of adversity we come to rely more and more on God’s power within us instead of our own power. That’s when we become stronger. That’s when we become “More than Conquerors” – when we learning to depend on God’s power rather than our own. I can’t think of a greater illustration of this than when Peter went barefoot skiing with Jesus. Well, not exactly, but here is the story: Shortly before dawn Jesus went out to them, walking on the lake. When the disciples saw him walking on the lake, they were terrified. “It’s a ghost,” they said, and cried out in fear. But Jesus immediately said to them: “Take courage! It is I. Don’t be afraid.” “Lord, if it’s you,” Peter replied, “tell me to come to you on the water.” “Come,” he said. Then Peter got down out of the boat, walked on the water and came toward Jesus. But when he saw the wind, he was afraid and, beginning to sink, cried out, “Lord, save me!” Immediately Jesus reached out his hand and caught him. “You of little faith,” he said, “why did you doubt?” And when they climbed into the boat, the wind died down. Then those who were in the boat worshiped him, saying, “Truly you are the Son of God.” –Matthew 14:25-33 Now a popular way to interpret this text is that Peter started to sink when he took his eyes off Jesus. That’s not bad but I think it goes a bit deeper than that. Peter came to the place where he realized that he was powerless over the elements of the storm and he was powerless over gravity. He came to a moment of truth where he knew all he had was Jesus. So here is the message I want you to receive today: We never know that Jesus is enough until Jesus is all we have left. Once we come to realize this we can begin our transformation into “more than conquerors.” Paul learned the same lesson as Peter. Look at how he describes it: I have learned to be content, whatever the circumstances may be. I know now how to live when things are difficult and I know how to live when things are prosperous. In general and in particular I have learned the secret of facing either poverty or plenty. I am ready for anything through the strength of the one who lives within me.–Philippians 4:11-13 Paul didn’t say the secret was a different set of circumstances. He didn’t say the secret was will power. He said the secret was Christ in him! Christ enabled him to be “ready for anything” and made him stronger through the trouble he faced. Jesus is all Paul had and he learned that Jesus was enough. When you face trouble with the confidence that the spirit of Christ will enable you to overcome it and redeem it you, you won’t waste your time and energy relying on anything or anyone else. You know the source to draw strength from. You can be ready for anything. You know you have the strength to face anything and you know you will be stronger whenever you conquer your battles in life. You see, when trouble in life gets the best of us it is usually because we don’t believe Jesus is enough. So we try to find peace and strength in other things and they never work. They simply make us vulnerable to the circumstances we face and our problems overwhelm us. Fear develops when we start believing that everything depends on us. Faith and strength develop when we learn that everything depends on God. We never know that Jesus is enough until Jesus is all we have left. Amen. 