Pasadena Community Church institution in the world can change lives like the church can? What other body of people can make a difference for eternity like the church can?” Why do we give? Because the church is God’s best hope for the world! The church is not about you or about me. The church is not about your agenda or my agenda. It is about the communication of the gospel to the next generation. It is about the people who aren’t yet here who need Jesus. The church is about the little children who run around here who one day will have families of their own. I saw tomorrow in our children today. Maybe one of these kids will discover the cure to cancer. Maybe one of these kids will be a preacher or missionary. Maybe one of these kids will be the President of the United States. Who knows? But one thing we do know is that they will need the church! Why do we give? Because the church is God’s best hope for the world! There is an old legend told about Zacchaeus. You remember Zacchaeus. He was short so he climbed a tree to see Jesus in a crowd. Jesus told him to get down from the tree because he was coming over to his house. Jesus transformed his heart and he was never the same again. The legend goes that after his conversion it was Zacchaeus’ habit to rise early and leave home for a while with a rake and shovel. Mrs. Zacchaeus noticed this one day and asked, “Where are you going?” Zacchaeus replied, “Do you remember that old sycamore tree I was in when Jesus found me? Well, I’m going to take care of it. It has been neglected by the city fathers and needs my care. You see, it held me so Jesus could find me” (Self, p.79). of you the church has been the tree that held you so Jesus could find you and love you. The church was there for you because people were willing to give generously. Now, it is our turn. Why should we give? Because the church holds people so Jesus can find them. The church loves people so Jesus can save them. The church cares for people so Jesus can empower them. The church supports people so Jesus can call them. When you fill out your pledge card, remember WHY: the church is God’s best hope for the world! So give generously and live generously. Come alive in Christ! Amen. Saints Alive! Living Generously 1st Corinthians 12:27 Sunday, October 11, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Experience Love in Action! I know that for many Connect ~ Grow ~ Serve PASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org On August 28th, 1963 Martin Luther King, Jr. led the march on Washington and delivered his “I Have a Dream” speech. It was a defining moment in our nation’s history. 250,000 people gathered in Washington that day. Keep in mind that no invitations were given out and there was no web-site to check the date and time of the event. And, of course, no one had a smart phone in their pocket! Yet, 250,000 people showed up on the right day at the right time to make history. How did that happen? How did King do it? He wasn’t the only civil rights leader at the time. He wasn’t the only great preacher at the time, either. How did he do it? A better question is why? Simon Sinek reminds us that King had a gift for sharing what he believed and why he believed it. He knew if enough people understood why he was doing what he was doing they would join him in his cause. King was right. 250,000 people did not show up for King; they showed up for themselves because they believed what King believed. In fact, about 25 percent of the audience was white. Sinek reminds us that MLK gave his “I have a dream” speech not his “I have a plan” speech! He didn’t share the “what” or the “how” of his movement; he shared the why. Sinek says all great leaders who inspire action know they must start with why before people will be motivated to act on what they believe. Why is a question of the heart. When people know why and believe in why they will do anything for why. I have come to the place in my ministry where I have learned this lesson. People don’t commit to anything until they know why they should commit. What people do reflects what they believe. I have learned that people don’t commit to what you do; they commit to why you do it. This is why we this year’s stewardship campaign is called “Saints Alive! – Living Generously!” When we as the church know why we should give we will come alive and give generously. We will give from the heart. Watch out! When you discover why, your generosity may even surprise you! This morning I want to tell you why you should give generously to the church. I am willing to bet that no one has really answered that question for you. Sure, you’ve heard preachers raise money for this building project or that program or ministry. And I am sure you have heard sermons on generosity – how it is better to give than to your receive. Some of you have been through your fair share of slick stewardship campaigns with letters and goals and slogans. And some of you have grown up learning biblical concepts of giving and tithing. But I bet no one has really given you a good reason why you should invest your hard earned money in the church. Why? It is a great question. You get letters and emails from colleges asking for money. Non are always asking for donations. Your kid’s school is asking for money. The Girl Scouts are always selling those delicious cookies. You have kids selling chocolate bars for worthy projects. On and on it goes. And then you get a letter from the church asking for you to pledge money. And then the preacher gets up on Sunday morning and asks for money. Really? You can’t possibly give money to every worthy organization. There are lots of good ones out there, but you can’t give to every one of them. You would go broke! So why, in the midst of all the requests for financial support, should you pledge your financial support to the church? Why should you invest your money and time in the church? Is there a good reason why? Well, this morning I am going to tell you why you should invest your money in Pasadena Community Church. The reason why is really quite simple but for some reason you don’t often hear why. Why often gets lost in the midst of details, plans and budgets. But why is the most important question because people don’t give to what; they give to why! When you hear why this morning you will never think twice about giving to the church again. When you hear why you should give your money to the church you may wonder why you didn’t give sooner – you may wonder why you have not invested more! When you hear why you may think, “I wonder why I didn’t get this before. It is so simple, so true, so powerful – why don’t more people know this?” Hearing why just may change how you view the church. The Apostle Paul would underscore the powerful role of the church by making a simple but profound statement about the church. It appears in 1st Corinthians 12:27: All of you together are Christ’s body, and each of you is a part of it. This means we are the hands and feet of Christ in this world! The Spirit of Christ works through us to do ministry. Christ is the head and we are the body. When we fully understand Paul’s words we come to the realization that Pasadena Community Church is not a charity organization or an event center or a concert hall or a recreational center. We are the body of Christ! We are living saints! We are God’s chosen vessel in the world! God has chosen the church to be his change agent in the world. So I am going to make it very clear and simple this morning. Why should you fill out a pledge card and give to the church? The Church is God’s best hope for the world! Christ died for the church, so we should be shepherds of the church and take care of the church. We should never neglect it. God created the church to be His vessel in the world. A close reading of history shows that when God does anything significant in this world, it is not done through politics, talk radio, fads, or through secular institutions; it is done through the church! Through the Saints! We must come alive! I know what some people are thinking. “What about all the bad things the church has done over the years?” Maybe you have a neighbor or relative that comes over to your house every holiday and criticizes the church. Perhaps they bring up the same litany every year – the Inquisition, the Salem witch trials, the corruption and abuse of clergy, etc. Maybe some of them tell you they used to go to church but they got their finger caught in the machinery of the church and have never been back. Someone got mad at them or they got mad at someone and, to their surprise, they discovered that the church is made up of imperfect people! Allow me to let the cat out of the bag for you this morning. The church is made up of imperfect people because, as the old saying goes, the church “is a hospital for sinners, not a museum for saints.” There is no such thing as the perfect church. I often find people who are searching for the perfect church. My response is always the same: “There is no such thing as the perfect church. But if you find the perfect church and join it, it will not be perfect anymore!” The church is not perfect because it is made up of human beings. However, the church is still the greatest thing God has going for Him in this world and if God is going to do something profound in this world He will do it through His church. I love the church. I love the Church universal and the church local. This is why I give generously to the church. I love walking into the sanctuary on Sunday mornings and seeing the joy on people’s faces. I love listening to the choir and praise band sing. I love watching the ushers and greeters greet visitors with warmth and friendliness. I love walking around this church property at night looking at our cross shine its light in the darkness. It reminds me we are a beacon in this community. Are we perfect? No. But we know the one who is perfect and we know that He can be trusted. We point the way to Him. I love the church. This is why when people talk bad about the church, I take it personally. I feel like they are criticizing my own family. Don’t mess with my family! Everything I am I owe to God and His church. The church raised me through the nursery and Sunday school. The church nurtured me as a teenager. The church supported me and encouraged me when God called me to preach. The church supported me financially through college, seminary and through my doctoral work. I stand here before you today because of the church and because people were willing to give generously to the church. You see, the gospel is not something that just floats around on its own. It is rooted, sustained, supported and organized by the church through the power of Holy Spirit. It is easy to get people saved, but the church keeps people saved. Don’t let that mess up your theology. What I am saying is that there is no such thing as an isolated Christian. I don’t know any Christian who is growing and serving effectively who is not active in a local church. Sometimes I come across people who think they can grow as a Christian without being part of a church. They claim to love Jesus, but they say they don’t need to be active in a church. This is biblically impossible! Once you receive Christ as Savior you are grafted into the body of Christ. Paul addresses this issue in 1st Corinthians 12 when he tells us the church is like a body and the ear never says to the foot that it has no need for it. No, we all play a key role in the body of Christ and we need each other. Together, by the power of God, we achieve more for God. This is why the church is God’s best hope for the world! Bill Self reminds us that the church was in the inner cities long before the activists were. The church was into education before the government. Harvard, Yale, and Princeton were originally started for the purpose of educating clergy. “The church has been feeding the hungry and creating community while general culture was debating political agendas and power. It was the church that broke down the Berlin Wall, led the March on Selma, produced Martin Luther King, Jr. and the civil rights movement, and it was the church that led the War on Poverty” (Bill Self, “Surviving the Stained Glass Jungle,” p.79). The church has been able to move mountains despite opposition, attacks, and the work of evil. Paul tells us in our text for today that savage wolves will try to come in and destroy the church. But all these attacks will never overcome the church because God created the church and His power works through us. Remember Jesus said the gates of hell will not prevail against the church. The church is infinitely stronger than most people understand. Self reminds us again that “the church has survived Roman Imperialism…pagan optimism, medieval institutionalism…wars and rumors of wars. The church has survived modern skepticism, Southern provincialism, fundamentalism, post-modernism, and heresies in every generation….the church has survived incompetent clergy, tone deaf musicians, manipulative members, argumentative leaders, demanding denominations, unloving reformers, and greedy politicians” (“Surviving the Stained Glass Jungle,” p.80). It can withstand anything the world throws at it because it is sustained and empowered by God! Still, the church thrives and provides love, affirmation and community to the left out, down and out, thrown out and the bruised, broken, and beaten. It changes lives with the gospel of Jesus Christ! I must confess a sin to you. When I get around the community and hear people talk about the great things our church is doing I am guilty of the sin of pride. I am so proud of this church. I think God makes allowances for that kind of pride. Our church is changing lives with the gospel! Whenever I see hungry people take food home from our food pantry, I want to shout, “This is why we give!” When I meet a waitress who tells me she learned to speak English at our church and it has made such a difference to her life, I want to shout, “This is why we give!” When I speak with couples who tell me that their marriage was saved by the ministries of our church, I want to shout, “This is why we give!” When I see people come down this aisle to receive Christ as Lord and Savior, I want to shout, “This is why we give!” When I see a young child at Gulfport Elementary light up when they see one of our mentors, I want to shout, “This is why we give!” When I see our children singing about the love of Jesus in their hearts, I want to shout, “This is why we give!” To critics of the church I ask, “What other 