scripture. Read the devotional or scripture passage. When you find that you are quiet on the inside, pray, “Lord, I want to get to know you better. I want to know your love. I want a relationship with you…” Then share with God what is on your mind and heart. Don’t hold back. Just share it. He is listening and wants to hear from you. Be sure to include not only your own needs but the needs of others. Before you end your prayer time, pray, “Lord, I want to please you. I want to do your will. Whatever it is you want, that’s what I want too. I want to fit into your plans. Show me the way.” Jesus knew the power of submitting to God’s will. Perhaps Jesus’ most important prayer was the one he prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane. His capture and crucifixion were close at hand. He was emotionally and spiritually exhausted. He was tempted not to go through with God’s plan. He pleaded with God to let the “cup” pass from him. It was at that moment that he said the prayer that changed everything -“Lord, not my will but yours be done.” This was not Jesus’ first prayer to God. He had been praying his whole life and ministry. He had developed such love and trust for God that when it came to the moment of truth he was prepared to surrender to God’s will. As a result, the world was changed. It is my assertion that what enabled Jesus to do what God had sent him to do for the world was his prayer life. I remember playing with the pew pencils in church when I was a kid. The pencils always had these words inscribed on them: “Prayer Changes Things.” As I have grown in my faith, I have learned that prayer does indeed “change things,” but it is not God who changes. It is me. There is a wonderful old phrase: “Prayer does not give us what we want, but prayer helps us want what we need.” How true that is. You see, prayer is not designed to change or persuade God; it is designed by God to change us! Prayer is a spiritual discipline through which we are formed into disciples of Jesus Christ. Just imagine how close you could feel to God if you prayed more. Just imagine what God could show you if you prayed more. Just imagine what God could do through you if you prayed more. Imagine the strength and wisdom you could have if you prayed more. Imagine the opportunities from God that would open for you if you prayed more. Imagine the person you could become if you prayed more. Imagine the relationships that could be healed if you prayed more. Imagine the impact our church would have if every one of us developed the habit of prayer. Just imagine the difference it would make to our ministries and our outreach into the community. Imagine the lives we could touch for Christ if all of us prayed more often. Imagine what God could do through our church through the power of prayer. Amen. ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org Pasadena Community Church WHY? ~ WHY Do My Prayers Go Unanswered? Luke 11: 5 -13 Sunday, September 20, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Today I continue our series “Why?” When life gets difficult and we all ask “why?” Why God? Why me? Why this? Why now? In this series we are exploring what the Bible has to say in response “Why?” This morning I want to focus one of the most common questions I receive: “Why are my prayers going unanswered?” If we are honest, most of us have been there. Deep inside many of us want to know if prayer makes a difference. And if it does make a difference, what difference does it make? Does prayer really work? If it does work, how does it work? Those of us who are Christians know that prayer is something we ought to do. If we need something – if we are confused about something – if we need guidance or direction – we have been taught to pray about it. In fact, most of us have heard well meaning friends ask us, “Have you prayed about it?” You know that prayer is important, but maybe you struggle with prayer because you never seem to get the results you are looking for. You know you need to take time to talk with God but it just doesn’t seem to get you anywhere. You know you need to pray but you just don’t seem to get an answer. And maybe this frustrates you because you hear people talking all the time about the power of prayer like God is eating their cornflakes with them at the breakfast table every morning and when you pray it feels like you are ringing the door bell to an empty house! Maybe you are someone who has a heavy burden or a serious issue in your life and you have prayed and prayed about it and you wonder if all your prayers are falling on deaf ears. Maybe you have prayed for a troubled child, a sick relative, a job, a better marriage, or some other serious issue and you don’t seem to be getting the answer you need. You wonder, “Is God listening?” And maybe you feel you are not doing it right and you think if you buy the latest book on prayer or attend a conference you can find the right prayer technique that will “Open Sesame!” Perhaps you find the act of praying difficult because you get easily distracted and bored. “Okay God, here I am, I have this need and….Is God really listening or am I just talking to myself….I do need to get to the grocery store…There is that email I need to return….Well, I can always pray later. After all, this is God. He knows me. He knows my thoughts before I think them. Why do I have to pray when he knows what I am going to say? I can be doing something more productive with my time…” Can you relate? Some of you here today may be skeptical about prayer. Maybe you think it is just wishful thinking or whistling in the dark. You think the whole idea of the Creator of the world listening to one prayer among billions is ridiculous. “Really? God has to listen to so many prayers! How does that work?” Does prayer make any difference or are we just wasting our breath? Does prayer matter or are there better things we can do with our time? Well, so much of our frustration with prayer has to do with a lack of understanding of what prayer is. Is it religious magic? Is it giving a cosmic Santa Claus a list? Is it putting our order into the universe? Is it crossing our fingers Christian style? What is prayer really? Until we understand what prayer is we will never understand the huge difference it can make in our lives. What I want to do today is help us understand what prayer is and how to do it. Prayer is the single most important act for anyone who seeks to follow God. We can’t know the will of God for our lives unless we pray. We cannot be strong in the face of temptation unless we pray. We can’t be the people God wants us to be unless we pray. We cannot be healthy spiritually unless we pray. We cannot make lasting changes in our lives unless we pray. We can’t get faith right until we get prayer right. Jesus knew this. Jesus understood the importance of prayer and the difference it makes. Jesus prayed all the time. In fact, in the gospel of Luke we find 15 different references to Jesus praying! At every turn in his life and ministry Jesus was praying. He prayed as he began his ministry. He prayed to renew himself. He prayed before he chose his disciples. He prayed as he evaluated his ministry. He prayed as he served and healed people. He prayed as he faced his crucifixion. He prayed on the cross. He prayed after he was resurrected. Jesus was always praying. It wasn’t an option for Jesus. He knew that in order for him to accomplish what God wanted him to do he needed to pray. If Jesus thought it was that important to pray, don’t you think we should be praying? In our scripture lesson for today we notice the disciples picking up on Jesus’ habit of praying. They see him praying all the time and think that they ought to learn something from it. So today we see Jesus praying in a certain place and the disciples approach him and say, “Uh, Jesus, that prayer thing you are always doing? Can you teach us to do it too?” Jesus agrees and begins to teach them. First he gives them a powerful prayer to learn – The Lord’s Prayer. After that he teaches them about the importance of prayer. Please understand – this teaching is not from the latest prayer guru who has written a best-selling book. This is a lesson on prayer from the Master himself: And he said to them, “Suppose one of you has a friend, and you go to him at midnight and say to him, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves of bread; for a friend of mine has arrived, and I have nothing to set before him.’ And he answers from within, ‘Do not bother me; the door has already been locked, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot get up and give you anything.’ I tell you, even though he will not get up and give him anything because he is his friend, at least because of his persistence he will get up and give him whatever he needs. -Luke 11:5-8 Circle the word “persistence.” That is the key word of this little parable. Jesus is not saying that God is bothered by our prayers or that God wants us to work a little when we pray. What Jesus is saying through this parable is that the key to effective prayer is persistent, habitual prayer. Big shocker! Are we surprised? If I go to the gym once a month, do you think it will do me any good? If I follow my diet once a week, do you think it will do me any good? Prayer works the same way. For prayer to make a difference it must become a habit. Many of us forget this simple truth. We pray for something once and we are disappointed when nothing changes. Perhaps we think, “Well, doesn’t God hear me the first time?” Yes, God hears us the first time, but prayer is deeper than that. Let’s keep reading. “So I say to you, Ask, and it will be given you; search, and you will find; knock, and the door will be opened for you. For everyone who asks receives, and everyone who searches finds, and for everyone who knocks, the door will be opened. -Luke 11:9-10 Wow! Did you read what I just read? You know what this means? This means that God always answers our prayers. Whenever we ask, God will answer. Whenever we search, we will find. Whenever we knock, God will open the door. And Jesus says this is true for EVERYONE. Everyone who seeks God persistently in prayer will receive an answer. This is a spiritual law. God answers prayer. The power of God through prayer is available to everyone. But notice what Jesus does not say. Jesus does not say everyone who asks receives the answer they want or finds what they are looking for or has the door they want open opened. God always answers us, but we may not always like the answer or expect the answer we get. What we want from God and what we receive from God are two different things. God loves us too much to always give us what we want because sometimes what we want is not good for us or what is best for us. But God will always answer us. Perhaps this changes your wondering about unanswered prayer. Maybe God has answered you and you just don’t like the answer. Someone once said that God answers prayer in one of four ways: “yes, no, wait, and are you kidding?” Bill Hybels says it quite well: “If the request is wrong, God says, "No." If the timing is wrong, God says, "Slow." If you are wrong, God says, "Grow." But if the request is right, the timing is right and you are right, God says, "Go!" This is somewhat glib, but there is some truth to it. I recall times in my own life when I prayed and prayed for God to give me something, and my prayers were never answered, or so I thought. Later, I discovered that what I wanted was not right for me. That event always reminds me of the country song, “Thank God for Unanswered Prayer.” There have been other times when God seemed to know that I was not ready for the answer to my prayer or the timing was not right, and God asked me to wait. It was then that I relied on the words of the Psalmist: “Wait for the Lord!” Jesus clearly states that there is something we can always count on to receive from God when we pray. Listen closely. Is there anyone among you who, if your child asks for a fish, will give a snake instead of a fish? Or if the child asks for an egg, will give a scorpion? If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!” –Luke 11:11-13 This is the single most important text about prayer. Jesus says that whenever we seek God in prayer God will always give to us His Spirit (the Holy Spirit). What is the purpose of the Holy Spirit? To love us, mold us, shape us, guide us, empower us, and direct us. This means that prayer is not putting our order in to God. It is not rubbing a magic lamp or giving a Santa Claus in the sky our list. Prayer is not getting our phrasing right so we can unlock the God machine. Prayer is the one essential practice that brings us closer to God and allows us to be formed by His love. Prayer is not “getting” from God; Prayer is intimacy with God. Prayer is developing a relationship with God. That’s why it must be a habit. So here is the message I want you receive today: Prayer is not meant to persuade God; it is meant to change us. Prayer is not bending God’s will to our will; it is bending our will to God’s will. Prayer does not give us what we want from God; prayer helps us want what we need from God. And what we need is to get our hearts right. What we need is to get our souls right. What we need is to get our relationships right. And this can only happen through a relationship with God in prayer. The truth is most of the time we don’t want a relationship; we want a roadmap. We pray, “Okay God, I don’t need much of your time. You don’t need to get too involved. Just give me some direction here. What should I do?” God replies, “Just hang out with me for awhile. Let’s spend some time together. I want to show you some things.” We persist, “Lord, really. I don’t need that much of you. Just give me a yes or no.” God replies, “Just abide in me and my love from day to day and you will find what you are looking for.” God still wants us to bring Him our needs, and our desires, and our questions and doubts. God loves us and wants us to give Him all that we are. But the answer to our questions, needs, and desires comes as we develop an intimate relationship with God through prayer. When we develop intimacy with God through prayer we find that abiding in His love and being the people He wants us to be is where true life is found. The more we experience true life the more we want to please God. And the more we want to please God the easier it is for us to change. And the easier it is for us to change the quicker we are to pray, “Lord, I want to fit into your plans.” You want God to move like a tidal wave in your life? You want prayer to make a huge impact in your life? Be prepared to pray, “Lord, whatever you want, that’s what I want too!” When you are ready to surrender like that in prayer, life gets exciting and becomes more interesting that you would ever imagine. You see, we must move from “Lord, this is how I want things to work in my life” to “Lord, I want what you want for my life.” If you desire intimacy with God through prayer today, I have a simple suggestion for you. If you do what I am about to tell you, you will experience the difference that prayer can make in your life. For the next seven days start your day with prayer. It doesn’t have to be a long time -5 to 10 minutes. You can stay in your bed or sit in a chair or do it at the breakfast table. Get a devotional or turn to your favorite passage of 