Pasadena Community Church Lessons from My Teachers Sunday, September 6, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor of the largest Baptist churches in the south for many years. He was a prominent leader in the Atlanta community and a highly regarded spiritual leader in his denomination. In fact, Mercer School of Theology named a preacher lectureship in his name. I remember when I was a kid I would sit next to my mom and ask her why the man speaking was taking so long! Most of the time I was hungry and ready to eat lunch. Of course, growing up I thought the hymn “I Surrender All” had 17 verses. “One more verse, come on down.” I would think, “Would someone just go down the aisle already! I’m hungry!” God has a sense of humor, doesn’t he? Look at me now. Here I am preaching and some of you are thinking, “When is he going to finish his sermon so we can go to lunch?” When I felt a call to preach I reconnected with Bill. And that reconnection began a profound friendship with a wise man and mentor. I will never forget a letter he wrote me shortly after I started serving my first church. It transformed my preaching. He had been listening to some of my recorded sermons and his letter said the following: Charley, stop preaching to your professors! Your professors are not the ones in worship. Of course you need to preach with your head but you also need to preach with your heart. Preaching is “truth through personality” and I don’t hear your personality in your sermons. I know your personality and there is not much of it in your preaching….start preaching to the real needs of people and preach with conviction. Preach with passion. Let your enthusiasm come out. That’s when the spirit will begin to move in your church and impact lives. Bill literally en-couraged me. He gave me the courage to preach the gospel with enthusiasm and conviction. He also reminded me that a sermon is not a lecture; it is a relevant gospel message for real people in the real world with real needs. Bill’s lesson to me reminds of this text found in Ephesians: Pray also for me, that whenever I speak, words may be given me so that I will fearlessly make known the mystery of the gospel. –Ephesians 6:19 Bill continues to be a great friend and mentor. In fact, he is a father figure to me. I ask for your prayers. He was recently diagnosed with ALS and is not doing well. His faith is strong and he still has a great sense of humor, but please pray for him. So those are five great teachers in my life. I learned how to read, never give, have discipline, recognize my calling as a preacher and preach with conviction all because of these five wonderful teachers. I am sure you have your own list of great teachers and the lessons they taught you. I encourage you to locate one of them or all of them and call them or write them a note and thank them for the difference they have made in your life. I also encourage you to look for opportunities to be a teacher or mentor to someone else. All of us are teachers on some level and there are people all around us who need someone to look up to, learn from, and lean on. You never know what a difference it will make. Of course, today we celebrate the greatest teacher in history, our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. The great thing about Jesus is that he has promised to be our guide and teacher wherever we go. He lives inside of us and never leaves us. He said so: “I am the way, the truth and the life”; “I am with you always even to the end of the age.” If you haven’t given your heart to Jesus, do so right now. You will have the greatest teacher in history guiding your life. Simply pray, “Lord, I need your forgiveness, guidance and wisdom. I give my heart to you and ask you to teach me the way I should go. Amen.” ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org I think I know why the Labor Day holiday falls right after school starts. It gives folks time to adjust to a new busy schedule! I read somewhere that the average person spends 14,000 hours at school by the time they reach the age of 18. That’s a lot of time with teachers! So, next to parents, teachers have the biggest impact on us. How many of you are teachers? Raise your hand if you are or have been a teacher. God bless you! Thank you for everything you do. You are the real heroes in our culture. I know all of us have our favorite teachers. Perhaps you are thinking of them right now. What made them so special? What made them your favorite? I found a quote that I believe expresses the one common characteristic of our favorite teachers: The mediocre teacher tells. The good teacher explains. The superior teacher demonstrates. The great teacher inspires. -William Arthur Ward So today I feel inspired to share lessons I have learned from some of my most inspiring teachers. I have been blessed with many wonderful teachers over the years and I would love to spend time talking about each one and the impact they have had on my life. But I doubt any of you would sit here for three hours listening to me. Therefore, I have picked just a few whose wisdom has shaped me and whose lessons continue to help me. I believe these lessons will also help you. Mrs. Jones – “If you can read this, thank a teacher!One of my favorite bumper stickers is this one: “If you can read this, thank a teacher!” That bumper sticker always reminds me of my first grade teacher, Mrs. Jones, because she taught me how to read. I would sit at her desk everyday and sound out the words as she encouraged me. One day it just clicked and I could read. I could read just about anything she put in front of me. She was so excited. She took me by the hand and led me to the principal’s office. This was actually one of the few times I went to the principal’s for a good reason! When we got to the office Mrs. Jones called my mom and shared the good news. She told everyone in the office, “This boy can read!” I felt like a million bucks. I will never forget what Mrs. Jones told me that day. She said, “Charley, you can do anything you want as long as you put your mind to it.” I had the courage to believe her. So whenever I read a book or the Bible I think of Mrs. Jones and the way she opened my eyes to the person I could be. She told me face to face that she believed in me. So when I wrote my first book, guess who received the first copy? Mrs. Jones. I inscribed the book this way: “To Mrs. Jones – thanks for teaching me how to read so I would know how to write!” I am so grateful to Mrs. Jones for teaching me how to read. All of us should be grateful if we have been taught to read. Sometimes we take for granted how important it is that we have learned to read. Consider these statistics: -1 in 4 children in America grow up without learning how to read. -2/3 of students who cannot read proficiently by the end of 4th grade will end up in jail or on welfare. -Over 70% of America’s inmates cannot read above 4th grade level. -Students who don't read proficiently by the 3rd grade are 4 times likelier to drop out of school. -Nearly 85% of the juveniles who face trial in the juvenile court system are functionally illiterate, proving that there is a close relationship between illiteracy and crime. (dosomething.org) It is because of these statistics that we have a mentor program at Gulfport Elementary. We have folks from our church who go to Gulfport each week and help students learn how to read. One of the most important reasons for reading is for feasting on the Bible. It is our source of strength. Reading it regularly gives us the spiritual nutrients we need to follow Christ. But if we can’t read, we can’t be nourished. So to help us remember to be nourished by the Bible let us all read these passages together: No one can live only on food. People need every word that God has spoken. –Matthew 4:4 I have not departed from the commands of his lips; I have treasured the words of his mouth more than my daily bread. –Job 23:12 Coach Earnest Killum (“Kill’em”) – “Can’t Never Could!” Coach Killum was my first tennis coach. Some of our finest teachers are coaches. Here is a picture of Coach Earnest Killum. He played for the Lakers in the early 70’s! He was also my P.E. coach when I was in elementary school and went on to be a school principal in Atlanta. Coach “Kill’em” lived up to his name. He would work me until I almost collapsed. He would run me ragged around the tennis court. I would complain and he would always ask me, “Do you want to be a good tennis player or a great tennis player? Do you want to win?” One of the things he would make me do was wear weights around each of my ankles while I practiced. It was rough. Running after balls became such a chore, and my legs would be so sore afterwards. One day I was so tired that I said a terrible four letter word! I said, “I can’t.” Coach Killum stopped everything, glared at me across the net and said, “Charley, you need to get that word out of your vocabulary! Can’t never could!” Now, that’ll preach! He was right! So I kept on running around with those weights. When I showed up to my next match without the weights I was amazed how swiftly I ran around the court. I beat the tar out of my opponent…in Jesus’ name, of course. There are lots of four letter words we need to get out of our vocabulary and “can’t” is one of them! The writer of Hebrews reminds us of this: Therefore, since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, let us throw off everything that hinders and the sin that so easily entangles. And let us run with perseverance the race marked out for us, fixing our eyes on Jesus, the pioneer and perfecter of faith. For the joy set before him he endured the cross, scorning its shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. –Hebrews 12:1-2 The word “can’t” was not in the Apostle Paul’s vocabulary either. He would write these words from a prison cell: Whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable-if anything is excellent and praiseworthy-think about such things. –Philippians 4:8 What this biblical wisdom is saying in a nut shell is this: We become what we think about. You are the accumulation of all your thoughts. If you don’t like who you are or where you are, change your thinking. If you think you can’t you won’t. If you think you can you will! Neil T. Anderson, in his book "Victory Over Darkness," tells a thrilling story about a little girl born with major health problems which left her crippled. Anderson says, “She had a large, wonderful Christian family. But while her brothers and sisters enjoyed running and playing outside, she was confined to braces. She asked, ‘will I ever be able to run and play like the other children?’ Her parents said, ‘Honey, keep on believing and trying. God can work wonders.’ Not only did she believe; she worked at it, trying to walk short distances without her braces, assisted by her brothers and sisters. On her 12th birthday, her braces were removed and she walked out of the doctor's office unassisted. By the age of 16 she was a star on the basketball team and one of the best young runners in America. She went to the Olympics in Australia and won a bronze metal. Four years later in Rome she won three gold medals and set a world's record. She capped the year by receiving the prestigious Sullivan Award as the most outstanding amateur athlete in America.” Her name? Wilma Rudolph. With God’s help it can be done. Rudolph said, “The triumph cannot be had without the struggle.” About to give up on something? Think you can’t? Get the word “can’t” out of your vocabulary and ask God to help you. He will. Mrs. Kitchel –“Oh Dear!” Mrs. Kitchel was my 5th grade math teacher. She was a tough teacher. In fact, some called her mean. I don’t know about that but she was tough and didn’t put up with anything but your best. Many of you will not be surprised to know that I wasn’t always the best student in my younger days. When I was a kid, being anywhere but outside playing a sport was torture. Of course, math itself was the worst kind of torture for me. I was terrible at math. I’m still terrible at math. Mrs. Kitchel was very perceptive. She had x-ray eyes that could see right through you. She also had a sixth sense. She could tell who did and did not do their homework just by the way they walked into her classroom. Of course, she would intentionally call on students who didn’t do their homework. And it would always go like this. She would call on the student. The student would slump down and say, “I didn’t do my homework.” And Mrs. Kitchel would reply, “Oohhhhh Dear! I think we are going to have to call mother.” One day I showed up without doing my homework. I didn’t have a good excuse. I just didn’t do it because I was having too much fun playing. And I knew she was going to call on me. And she did. When I told her I didn’t do my homework, she said it: “Oohhhhh Dear! I think we are going to have to call mother!” She took me straight to the principal’s office and called my mom! A fate worse than death in the fifth grade! And let me tell you, I always did my homework after that! It may not have been right, but I did it! Sometimes the toughest teachers end up being our favorite teachers. We may not like them at the time, but later we realize the wisdom they taught us. My geography teacher in high school proves my point but not in the way you might think. His name was Mr. George and he was the golf coach. He was a wonderful man but why they had him teaching geography I will never know. The only thing we did in his class was watch action movies. Now, that was fine with me. I love “First Blood” and “The Poseidon Adventure” and so did the rest of the class. Students were dying to get into that class. All you had to do was show up and watch Rambo save the day and write paragraph summaries of all the movies you watched. Now, what that had to do with geography I don’t know, but none of us cared. Of course, at the end of the class none of us could tell you where Nebraska was on a map! Mr. George didn’t teach me much but Mrs. Kitchel taught me two key virtues that are essential for spiritual growth and success – discipline and accountability. She held me accountable and made sure I had the discipline to do my work. If you want to grow as a person and succeed at anything you must have discipline. It is impossible without it. And what is discipline exactly? Discipline means to “train oneself to do something virtuous in a controlled and habitual way.” It takes time and patience. Discipline is dedicating yourself to a worthy goal by practicing excellence in pursuit of that goal on a regular basis. Why do you think we call prayer, fasting, Bible study, worship, and service “spiritual disciplines”? These disciplines help shape us as children of God and enable us to grow as Christians. Take a look at what the Bible says about discipline: No discipline seems pleasant at the time, but painful. Later on, however, it produces a harvest of righteousness and peace for those who have been trained by it. –Hebrews 12:11 My child, do not despise the LORD’s discipline or be weary of his reproof, for the LORD reproves the one he loves, as a father the son in whom he delights. –Proverbs 3:11-12 Rev. Brad Dinsmore – “What Do You Want to Do with Your Life?” Many ministers are great teachers and Rev. Brad Dinsmore was to me. He definitely inspired me. Brad was my minister throughout my teenage years. He taught me that preaching can change lives because his preaching changed mine. This is why preaching is my first love and the foundation of my ministry. As a 14 year old kid, I would sit in the front row of the sanctuary anticipating Brad’s sermons. His sermons moved me, inspired me, taught me and empowered me. After a while a fire began to develop inside me to do the same thing Brad was doing. I wanted to preach the gospel and change lives. Brad was a discerning soul and he recognized my sense of call. One day after worship as I was shaking his hand he looked at me and said, “I want to know what you want to do with the rest of your life. Let’s go to lunch this week and talk about it.” And so we did. And so began my journey to become a preacher. Brad inspired me because he saw my potential and took the time to talk with me about it. He saw God working in my life. He was the catalyst in getting me started on the journey God had for me – all because he took the time to ask me a question. Sometimes our greatest teachers are those who recognize what we are capable of before we are able to recognize it. God has a calling for each of us. God has gifted you with a passion and a gift for something. I love this definition of a calling: “When your greatest passion intersects with one of the world’s greatest needs.” Look at what the Bible has to say about God’s call upon our lives: For I know the plans I have for you,” declares the LORD, “plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future.” –Jeremiah 29:11 He who began a good work in you will carry it on to completion until the day of Christ Jesus. –Philippians 1:6 Is God calling you to do something to make a difference in this world? Don’t ignore the call. If you would like to speak with me about it, I would love to talk about it with you. Dr. Bill Self – “With Conviction!” Dr. Bill Self was my childhood minister growing up in Atlanta. Some of you may remember that he preached here at Pasadena a few years ago. Bill was a brilliant preacher and was the lead pastor of one 