to good people is to offer another question: What happens to good people when bad things happen to them? This is a question that the Bible clearly answers. In the eighth chapter of Romans, Paul uses several words to describe the assumed pain and suffering of life: hardship, persecution, distress, nakedness, peril, the sword. Paul and the early Christians were very much in touch with unfair suffering. But what did Paul say happens to us when we experience bad things? Not only did he say that we will never be separated from God’s love, but in Romans 8:28 Paul says something truly remarkable: “All things work together for good for those who love God, who are called according to his purpose.” This remarkable verse expresses that evil and pain is never the will of God, but God can take evil and pain and use it for good. Over and over again in life we see this. When evil attacks with pain, God uses it to build character. When evil shows resistance, God uses it to build strength. When evil cripples with tragedy, God finds a way to victory. When evil destroys with death, God restores life. God is in the transformation business. God can turn our trouble into triumph! The ultimate example of this is Jesus’ work on the cross. Before Jesus, the cross represented suffering, shame, punishment, and death. But he came and transformed it into a symbol of victory, forgiveness, love and life. So whenever we gaze upon the cross we are reminded that God can take what is ugly and make it beautiful. My friend Andrew’s funeral that I mentioned earlier was an ugly experience but God did do something beautiful with it. The night before the funeral I was talking with one of Andrew’s childhood friends. We were sitting on a dock looking out at a lake. He confessed that he was not very “religious.” He asked, “So, you’re a minister huh?” I said, “Yes I am.” He asked, “How do you deal with death and funerals? How do you get through them? That’s got to be tough?” I said, “Yeah, it is. But God gives me the strength to be able to minister in those situations. It is never easy but God helps me.” He replied, “You really believe all that stuff?” I said, “I sure do. With all my heart.” The next day at the funeral I read some scripture and said a few words about Andrew. After the funeral Andrew’s friend approached me and said, “This faith stuff is real to you, isn’t it?” I said, “It sure is.” Then he said, “I’ve never read the Bible very much. Could you recommend a translation I should read?” I said, “Here, take mine. It’s yours.” Now, it was my favorite Bible, but I thought it was for a good cause! God took a very ugly situation and did something beautiful with it. He provided an opportunity for me to share with someone that my strength comes from God. And the message I want to leave you with today is that God take what is ugly in your life and make it beautiful. If your patient enough and open to what God wants to do in your life, He will take what is ugly and make it beautiful. Give to God what is ugly in your life. Just hand it over to Him. And He will do something beautiful with it. Amen. Pasadena Community Church WHY? ~ WHY is There Suffering in the World? Sunday, September 13, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor Why? We all wrestle with this question at some point in our lives. When bad things happen, our prayers seem unanswered, and God seems far away, we cry out, “Why?” In this series of messages, we will look to the scriptures and the stories of those who have come through horrific tragedies to help us understand how God is at work in our lives and our world. Today I begin this series with most challenging question of all. I am sure it has been on many of our minds this past week as we remember the horrific tragedy of 9/11: “If there is a God then why do people suffer?” Another way people ask this question is, “Why do bad things happen to good people?” In theological circles it is called the theodicy question. Basically the underlying angst for many who ask the theodicy question is this: If God can’t stop suffering, then he is not great. If God can stop suffering and doesn’t, then he is not good. So many folks ask, “If you are telling me God is great and good, then why is there suffering in the world?” It is a great question. It is my experience that the theodicy question is one of the biggest reasons why so many people choose not to believe in God. For many, this question is a huge roadblock to faith. In fact, you may be one of those people. Maybe you have experienced unspeakable pain and tragedy in your life and the suffering you have been through keeps you from believing that God exists, let alone a good, loving God. You’re here to see if someone can really tell you why bad things happen to good people. Or perhaps those of you here who believe in God, which is most of us, have friends and relatives who have experienced great suffering and the theodicy question has kept them from faith in God. You don’t know how to help them. Or maybe you believe in God but the theodicy question has lingered within you for a long time. What I am about to share I believe will help everyone who struggles with this challenging question. Wrong Answer! Let me begin by saying that one of the biggest problems with this question is how some Christians have answered it. How some Christians have answered this question has not only been unhelpful but harmful. In past sermons I have shared with you that when I was in seminary one of my best friends in college was killed by a drunk driver. He and his girlfriend were on bikes in Austin, Texas on their way to the hill country for the afternoon. In my friend’s pocket was an engagement ring. He was going to propose marriage to her that day. That proposal never happened. A drunk driver struck both of them, killing my friend instantly. His girlfriend suffered multiple injuries and was in a coma for two months. I was invited by my friend’s family to read scripture and speak at the funeral. I remember going to the viewing the day before the funeral. It was an open casket. I recall looking at my friend in the casket and someone standing next to me saying something I will never forget. I don’t know who the person was, but he looked at my friend in the casket and said, “It is hard to understand God’s will sometimes.” Now, I was ready to give that man a good sermon, but it wasn’t the time or place. I thought to myself, “God didn’t do this! A drunk driver did!” It is amazing how some Christians will blame suffering on God. A baby dies and someone says, “God needed another angel in heaven.” A young mother dies of breast cancer leaving a ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~ServePASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org husband and two kids behind and someone says, “God works in mysterious ways.” A group of teenagers on their way to prom are killed in a car accident and someone says, “God must have had a purpose.” We get bad news. We are disappointed. Life takes a bad turn and we have a well meaning friend say to us, “Everything happens for a reason.” She received news from the doctor that she has cancer and her friend says, “God never gives you more than you can handle.” What? Of course it doesn’t help the cause of the Christian faith that we have particular Christian personalities say dreadful things on television. Some of you will remember that after 9/11 a well known religious figure went on TV and told the world that God orchestrated 9/11 to punish America for its sins. He said abortionists, feminists, gays and lesbians had angered God and 9/11 was the way God chose to punish us. And then we wonder why some folks are turned off by Christians and the church? And then we wonder why some folks don’t want to have anything to do with God? Why would they when they hear Christians say that God causes great suffering and pain in the world? Why would they want to believe in a God like that? It is beyond me how some folks who read the same Bible I do and follow the same Christ that I follow can believe that God would orchestrate unspeakable tragedy. It is beyond me how some folks who believe that the same God who personified himself in Christ and put little children on his knee would kill children with cancer, kill teenagers through car accidents, and wipe out families in tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes. It is beyond me. The God I know and love would not plot and plan suffering and tragedy. Sometimes bad things happen because of the foolishness of others. Sometimes bad things happen because of our own bad choices. Sometimes bad things happen because we live in an evil and imperfect world. But let’s not blame tragedy and suffering on God. So, if you are someone who has always wondered I will tell you this: God does not cause suffering. Why Is There Suffering? Well, this begs the question, “Then why is there suffering?” If God is great and good, then why is there suffering in the world? It may come as surprise to some of you that the theodicy question can be seen throughout the Bible. The Psalms ask it. Job asks it. Lamentations is full of it. The prophet Habakkuk complains to God about it. The prophet Jeremiah questions God about it: Why do the wicked prosper and the innocent suffer? Look at what Jeremiah says to God in the 12th chapter: “Righteous are you, O LORD, when I complain to you; yet I would plead my case before you. Why does the way of the wicked prosper? Why do all who are treacherous thrive?” Many of the biblical writers cry out with this same burning question that we ask today. So what is the answer to Jeremiah’s complaint, to our complaint? In a word, freedom. We live a world where God has given us freedom. The same freedom that allows us to choose to love and serve God allows others to pick up weapons and kill innocent people. Freedom itself is good, like all of God’s gifts, but some choose to pervert God’s gift and use it for evil. So why doesn’t God intervene before a gunman shoots innocent people? Why doesn’t God do something to prevent people from killing each other? Because freedom is at stake. If God took away our freedom to do evil He would also be taking away our freedom to do good! And if God did that we would just be a bunch of numb robots incapable of love or hate. God doesn’t want us to be like that anymore than you want to be like that (“Fear Itself” by Jim Somerville). What about those tragic events that human beings don’t cause like natural disasters? Well, not only is humanity broken but creation itself is broken too. The truth is that we live in a sinful world that runs amok and bad things happen to both the innocent and the guilty. Sin permeates biology, humanity, and geography and everyone, good and bad, experiences the consequences of it. As Christians we have the assurance that one day Christ will come in glory and all of our questions will be answered, all of the great mysteries will be solved, all of our confusion will turn into clarity, and every tear will be wiped away. Of course, until that great day comes we have to cope with suffering in life. So the questions is: If God does not cause tragedy and suffering, what role does God play in suffering? Where is God when it hurts? Where is God when planes crash and earthquakes come and people die in car accidents? Where is God and is He involved at all? You may be suffering today and want to know the answer to that question. How do we make sense of suffering if we follow a loving and powerful God? I want to offer some things that have helped me as I have struggled with the question of why bad things happen to good people. My prayer is that they will help you too. We Never Suffer Alone I want to lift up a passage of scripture that tells us exactly where God is when we suffer. It comes from the Old Testament, from the prophet Isaiah. Isaiah was prophesying about Jesus and he said something that I think all of us need to remember when it comes to our own suffering. In fact, what I am about to read may bring healing to you today. Isaiah 53:3-4 reads: “He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and familiar with suffering. Like one from whom men hide their faces he was despised and we esteemed him not. Surely he took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows.” Did you see that? He carried our sorrows. He carries our sorrows. I want you to hear that today. Wherever you are, whatever you are going through, whatever pain you are in God carries your sorrows. He shares it with you. He cries with you. He aches with you. He loves you too much for you to deal with it alone. You see, Jesus’ death tells us that when we suffer, God suffers with us. The cross and resurrection reveal that God suffers when we suffer and He has the power to redeem our suffering. Look for the Helpers Mister Rogers said it so well: "When I was a boy and I would see scary things in the news, my mother would say to me, ‘Look for the helpers. You will always find people who are helping.’ Harry Emerson Fosdick once said, “Goodness is a far greater problem for the atheist than evil is for the believer.” Instead of focusing on the evil and suffering in the world, look at all the goodness that abounds! Where does all this goodness come from? It can only come from a loving God who cares for us. Allow the goodness in the world to lead you back to the goodness of God. And may the goodness of God lead you to help heal the suffering in the world. Because God wants to heal suffering in this world, and you know how He is going to do it? Through you and through me! When God wants something done in this world, he counts on his church to do it! You want to see God at work in the midst of suffering, just open your eyes. He works through people all the time. And he wants to work through you! Recently, Sherriff’s Deputy Darren Goforth was gunned down at a gas pump in Harris County. Texas. And, of course, the deputies in Harris County can’t help but feel anxious. And we can’t help but wonder what’s wrong with this world. But let’s follow Mister Rogers advice and look for the helpers. I want to show you a picture. This is Tommi Jones Kelly and she is a law enforcement officer in Harris, County, Texas. She posted this selfie with a teenager who asked if he could stand watch over her while she pumped gas in the pouring rain. Here is what happened in Officer Kelly’s own words: “Ok, so early this morning I was pumping gas in my patrol car (reason I look like a hot mess!)…and add it was pouring rain…When this teenager I’ve never met before is standing right behind me and says, ‘ma’am, do you mind if I stand here behind you while you get your gas?’ My initial response was ‘and why?’… His reply, ‘to make sure you stay safe!’ “I finished pumping my gas and he was still standing there, in the rain. Then he just walked off and started to get into the passenger side of a car. I asked the driver if she was his Mom & indeed she was. I told her she has an amazing son. The mother said, ‘He wanted to make sure no one hurt you.’ “Yes, I’m the one with the gun on my hip while he stood there empty handed, but he for sure had my back while it was turned. With all the terror going on nationwide, this reassured me there are still some pretty awesome individuals out there!” The teenager’s name is Mckinley Zoellnerner. He said, “It was amazing to see her face. Afterwards she gave me a big hug.” And Zoellnerner said he had never been hugged by a cop before! Of course, before they left the gas station they snapped this selfie and the picture has gone viral on the internet. Kelly said, “I hope people understand that we will risk our lives for them.” What if Christians just did their job? A lot of suffering in this world would be alleviated. What is our job as Christians? To help God alleviate suffering in the world. So often we complain to God and wonder why He is not doing something about the suffering in the world and I’m sure His reply is, “I am trying to do something, through YOU! You are my hands and feet in this world!” Look for the helpers and be a helper. What Happens to Good People When Bad Things Happen to Them? I believe the best help I can give as we grapple with the question of why bad things happen 