direction from God in a special circumstance? Sure and I believe God can and will provide it and when he does it will be very evident if we are connected to him. But folks, most of the time, God’s will for us can be found by answering these two questions: Will this honor God and what is the loving thing to do? And, you may say, “Well, there are many options with those questions.” That’s right! You see, so often we think God’s will is confined to one thing. The truth is God’s will is often “all of the above.” God’s will for us is to love him and love others and that means God’s will can be fulfilled in a myriad of ways. Most of the time God’s will is not a pin point but a big expanding circle. We have a big God. Why would his will be so confined? Now are there limits? Yes, there are lines and boundaries that God does not want us to cross and he will let us know what they are. But God gives us the freedom to live out his will in a variety of ways. C. S. Lewis once said that “all genuine religious conversions are blessed defeats.” You want to know the secret to finding God’s will? A surrendered spirit. This means we must change how we approach God and his will for us. Instead of deciding what we want to do and asking God to bless it, we must decide to surrender all we are to God and ask him what he wants to do with us. We must put ourselves at the disposal of God. “Lord I want to honor you and love others.” Then and only then, will we be clear about our Lord’s will for our lives and we will see there are many ways to we can live out God’s will in the world. I knew a lady in another church I served who learned the power of a surrendered spirit. She was caught stealing and sentenced to prison. After serving time in prison, she sold everything she had, except for a few necessities, and gave it all away to the poor. Then she moved to the mountains and, as time passed, she became an excellent painter. When she reflected on her transformation she said, “When you have been caught, you have nothing to hide. And when you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to fear. And when you have nothing to fear, oh my, what you can become.” Imagine what you could become with a surrendered spirit to God. Imagine what this church could become with a surrendered spirit. Amen. Pasadena Community Church WHY? ~ WHY is God’s Will So Elusive? Sunday, September 27, 2015 Sermon by: Dr. Charley Reeb, Senior Pastor PASADENA COMMUNITY CHURCH a United Methodist Congregation 227 -70th Street South ~ St Petersburg, FL 33707 (727) 381-2499 email: pasadena@pccumc.org www.pasadenacommunitychurch.org Why? We all wrestle with this question at some point in our lives. When bad things happen, our prayers seem unanswered, and God seems far away, we cry out, “Why?” Today we focus on this common question: “Why is God’s Will So Elusive?” Ever struggled with finding God’s will in your life? Take a look at this picture. Wouldn’t it be nice if God really spoke to us this way? Wouldn’t it be nice if we were ever confused about something, all we would have to do is look at a billboard and find the answer or look up into the sky and there would be something written in the clouds. Or what about the radio? That would be great! We could just tune in to a particular station each week and God’s voice would break in and say, “This is what I want you to do.” A lot of us would love to hear from God in such a clear way. Then again, depending upon the message and the state of our lives, some of us would not! Overall, though, most people I speak with yearn to hear God’s voice and want to know God’s will for their lives. God’s will is one of the biggest issues I deal with as a pastor. People continually come to me, desperately wanting to know God’s will. They often say, “I have a big decision, and I need to know what God wants me to do!” “I am at a crossroad, and I wonder what God’s will is for my life?” When I ask people what they would like to hear a sermon on, a frequent response is, “Finding God’s will for my life.” Obviously, finding God’s will is important for many of us. God’s will is not a secret. Discovering God’s will is not some kind of existential game of hide and seek where God hides it and is amused by watching us try to find it. God deeply desires for us to know and do his will. Unfortunately, many have the notion that discovering God’s will is reserved only for the spiritually elite. They hear friends speak about God as if he was at their breakfast table every morning, and then they wonder why they can’t hear God too. But being in tune with God’s will for us is not complicated. We just make it complicated. So in today’s message I am going to tell you how simple it is to find God’s will and apply it. But before we go any further it is important that we have the right understanding of God’s will. Many people have a false picture of God and how God views human beings. Instead of seeing God as loving and merciful, many see God as an angry, gray haired old man with a stick, waiting to find those who are breaking the rules so he can punish them. Nothing could be further from truth! Read what the Bible says about God: 2 Corinthians 1:3 states that God is “the Father of all mercies, and the God of all comfort.” In John 10:11 were a told that God in Christ is “the Good Shepherd who lays down His life for his sheep.” 1 John 3:1 proclaims that God is “the Sovereign God who loves us so much that he calls us his children.” James 1:17 says that God is “the Father who gives only good gifts.” The Bible is clear that we have a loving and merciful God. However, the most convincing evidence for the good nature and will of God is God’s revelation to us in Jesus Christ. God chose to reveal himself in Jesus Christ so we could understand what his ExperienceLoveinAction!Connect~Grow~Servenature is like. Through Christ, God communicated to us that he forgives us, loves us, and wants what is best for us—he went all the way to cross to prove that to us! Romans 12:1-2 is clear about God’s intentions for us: I appeal to you therefore, brothers and sisters, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your minds, so that you may discern what is the will of God -what is good and acceptable and perfect. What God has in mind for us comes in three words in verse 2: “Good, acceptable, and perfect.” God’s will is good, acceptable, and perfect. First, God’s will is good. This means that God has the highest and best for us in mind. Second, God’s will is acceptable. The Greek word for acceptable means “well pleasing” and “agreeable.”Third, God’s will is perfect, which means it meets the needs of the person. We can be sure that no matter what circumstance we face, we can have the peace that comes from knowing that God’s will for us in any situation is good, acceptable, and perfect. God knows us better than we know ourselves and he wants what is best for us. By now you may be asking, “Well, if God want us to know his will, and it is good for us, why is it so difficult to discover?” The answer: We have a will, too! You see, often people know what God’s will is for them; they just don’t want to do it. They hide behind the statement, “Woe is me, I can’t find God’s will.” In reality it is more like, “Woe is me, I don’t want to do what God wants me to do.” I have discovered as a pastor that more often than not when people struggle with God’s will in their lives, it is a struggle of change or a struggle of pride. This is not always the case, but in most cases, somewhere in our struggles to find God’s will is either the obstacle of change or the obstacle of pride. There are those who fear change so much that they have a spiritual block to hearing and doing God’s will. For some feel like the poem by A. A. Milne, the creator of Winnie the Pooh: When I was One, I had just begun. When I was two, I was nearly new. When I was three, I was hardly me. When I was four, I was not much more. When I was five, I was just alive. But now I am six, I’m as clever as ever. So I think I’ll be six forever and ever! We are creatures of habit and we get comfortable very easily. Therefore, we don’t like change. Sometimes this can be the real cause of our inability to find’s God’s will. God could be giving us signs and expressions everyday but because we fear change our spirit is not open to recognizing those signs. “Lord, let me know your will, but make sure it doesn’t involve change.” Good luck with that one! The unavoidable truth is that there is no growth, Christian or otherwise, there is no wholeness, there is no fulfillment, there is nothing worthwhile that happens in this gift of God called life without change. To refuse to change is to refuse the best God has to offer you and your life. Period. Pride can also be an obstacle for many who are struggling to find God’s will. When out of control, pride can strip our spiritual gears and put us in a real mess. Pride is what started it all in the Garden of Eden. Adam and Eve thought, “We don’t need God; we can be gods ourselves.” And we all know the pain and misery that followed. Too much pride can get us into a lot of trouble. I saw this illustrated right before my eyes a few years ago. I was coming out of the church office, and I watched as a toddler got away from her mother and began to run toward a busy street. The mother was pregnant and had an infant in her arms. I immediately drop the books that were in my hands and ran after the child. I will never forget the look on the child’s face. She looked back at me laughing, determined to outrun me, not knowing she was headed for great danger. Fortunately, I was able to catch her before she ran into the busy street. Pride is like that. We get so filled with it that we are totally oblivious to where it is leading us. This is why it is impossible to live out God’s will when we are filled with pride, for pride makes us stubborn to God’s will, or it selfishly attaches conditions to God’s will. It is almost comical. Our pride often causes us to bargain with God: “Yes, Lord I will forgive this person as long as he apologizes.” Or, “Yes, Lord, I will serve in the church as long as I get recognized for my efforts.” Is it any wonder that we have a tough time finding God’s will and living it out when we live our faith in this way? So are you struggling to find God’s will for you? Ask yourself: “Do I have and issue with change or pride?” You may find the culprit. However, that may not help you. Perhaps you have prayerfully searched yourself and you know that your struggle with God’s will is not a struggle of change or pride and you are at a loss. The truth is sometimes when we struggle with knowing God’s will we just have to go back to fundamentals. Ever hear a reporter interview an athlete who has just come out of a slump? Quite often you will hear the athlete tell the report, “I just needed to get back to fundamentals.” Sometimes when we struggle in our faith journey and have a difficult time discerning God’s will for us, we need to do the same thing – Get back to the fundamentals of our faith. And what are the fundamentals of our faith? Well, Jesus gave them to us. Jesus had a knack for getting to the heart of the matter: When the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together, and one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question to test him. “Teacher, which commandment in the law is the greatest?” Jesus said to him, “‘You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind.’ This is the greatest and first commandment. And a second is like it: ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’ On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets.” –Matthew 22 Jesus’ answer was revolutionary. He quoted from Deuteronomy 6:5 and Leviticus 19:18. He said if someone follows these two commands he or she will keep the essence of the Law. Jesus was saying, “You want the Cliff Notes version of the living out the faith? You want me to sum it up for you? You don’t have to memorize all these little rules and laws and worry yourself sick. All you have to do is do two things and you got it. Here it is: Love God with all your being and love other people like you would love yourself. You do that you got the Law down!” You can see the Pharisees’ jaws drop. They had dedicated their lives to poring over 613 laws. They interpreted them and debating them. And along comes this carpenter from Nazareth and he wraps them all up in one sentence! The Pharisees were so preoccupied with the details of the law that they failed to see the heart of the law. Jesus was a master at bringing out the heart of the matter. His answer shows us that the purpose of the law is to bring us closer to God and our neighbor. If we love God and our neighbor we are fulfilling what God desires. That’s it! That is the heart to all of it. This is God’s will. So how do we use this fundamental in our daily lives to discern God’s will? How do we discover God’s will as we go to work and school, deal with deadlines and kids and bills and in laws and annoying neighbors? Well, it is pretty simple. Before you speak at a pivotal moment – before you make a decision – before you choose a path – before you respond in the heat of the moment – before you make a business transaction ask yourself, “Will this honor God? What is the loving thing to do?” 95 percent of the time you will be confident about your decisions and actions if you ask these two questions. One of the things I do is ask myself these questions before I begin my day. During my quiet time with God in the morning I ask myself, “How will I honor God today? How will my words and actions be a reflection of love to those around me?” Let me tell you those questions have gotten me out of more trouble than you can imagine! But the days I am rushed and I skip that quiet time and don’t ask myself those questions, my day is off balanced. I don’t have the clarity I need. It is not as if God is not with me. It is that my heart has not been prepared for the day. And when your heart and my heart are not prepared every day to honor God and love others, then our days can become a trip without a compass. Folks, the truth is, many people make the idea of God’s will too complicated. When you read the Bible you find that God makes his specific will known to particular people on exceptional occasions. In other words, doing what God wants us to do is not complicated. It’s pretty clear. Follow the greatest commandment, be kind to others, follow the golden rule, do not sin. God’s will is pretty straight forward. Now, are there certain times in our lives when we need a specific 