Gathering Light V: “Honoring the Wisdom of Other Traditions” Epiphany Sunday 1-4-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James at EUMC texts: Isaiah 60:1-6 & Matthew 2:1-12  Our text for today, the traditional reading on Epiphany Sunday, is widely known as the story of the “three wise men,” recorded in Matthew’s gospel. We might note, however, that Matthew never tells us how many wise men---or magi in the Greek---came to Bethlehem. Tradition holds that there were three, but that’s only because they brought three gifts: gold, frankincense, and myrrh.  We might also note that while later tradition holds that the visitors were kings---and much later, even gives them names---the magi were not kings, though they may have been advisors to kings. Identified by Matthew as wise men from “the East,” most likely Persia, or modern-day Iran---the magi were members of the priestly class. In their home country, they sat on the supreme council and had charge of the education of the royal family. They were famous for their skill in astronomy, and had kept records of the movements of the stars for many centuries.  Have you ever noticed that the magi were priests? They weren’t Jewish priests, though they had a sacrificial system similar to the one practiced in Israel. And like the Jews, they believed in the existence of only one god. The magi performed public rituals and were authorities on religious doctrine. They interpreted dreams and foretold the future. A principle element of magian worship was fire, and on their primary altar burned a perpetual flame.  Have you ever noticed this? That at the manger in Bethlehem, multiple religious traditions are represented? There were at least two, perhaps more. You might even call the nativity scene an interfaith gathering.  The word “epiphany” means a manifestation, a “showing forth” of God. It also means “a moment in which you suddenly see or understand something in a new or very clear way.” The magi’s visit to the infant Jesus is a moment in time that the church has always referred to as an epiphany: hence “Epiphany Sunday.” Might the inclusion of multiple religious traditions in the nativity story give us, today, a fresh vision of God’s intent for our world?  Today’s world is a global village, connected by commerce and communications to an extent that has hardly been imagined, let alone possible, before now. And it’s obvious in a new way that, on this shrinking planet, Christianity is just one of the great world religions. Religious pluralism is a fact of life in our own society, as well. Over the last thirty-five years, the United States has become the most religiously diverse nation in the world. Consider the following statistics:i  . There are approximately six million Muslim Americans. There are as many Muslim Americans as there are Presbyterians and Episcopalians combined.  . There are four million Buddhist Americans. That is more than half of the number of United Methodists.  . There are about one million Hindus in the United States, about the same as the membership of the United Church of Christ. What this means for many of us is that the world of our childhood, in which just about everybody we knew was Christian, or perhaps Jewish, has changed dramatically. Most of us have friends, neighbors, and co-workers who are Muslim, Buddhist, or Hindu. As Christians, how should we relate to these neighbors, and to their religious traditions?  We turn to our scriptures for answers. The Bible is a chorus of voices testifying—over a span of about a thousand years---to our spiritual ancestors’ best sense of God’s presence and God’s leading in this world. And some of these voices, as you know, view adherents of other faiths as beyond the reach of God’s love.  You can find texts in the Bible that suggest that Christianity is the one true religion, and that only Christians will go to heaven when they die. Everyone else, even those whom we know to be good and decent people, even those who have never heard of Jesus Christ, even those who lived before the time of Christ, is utterly condemned and will be sent to a fiery hell. These same texts, as you also know, have been used historically to legitimate the most unspeakable acts of cruelty and arrogance, perhaps unparalleled in the history of world religions, including annihilating and conquering in the name of the truly humble one, Jesus.  But there is an alternate stream of tradition running throughout the Bible, and witnessing to a different view. In Genesis, all people are created by God, and in the image of God. Through Abraham, God forms a particular covenant with the Hebrews, but through Noah, God forms a universal covenant of love for all humanity and all creation. The story of Jonah reveals God’s care for people outside the Hebrew tribe. The Psalmist writes, “Let all the nations be glad and sing for joy!” The prophet Isaiah proclaims, “All the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of God.”  Significantly, our Bible holds that there is one God, and no other. Which means that the prayers of all the people in the world are heard by the one God, not by different gods. In Malachi, God says, “From the rising of the sun to its setting, my name is great among the nations, and in every place incense is offered to my name.” In Acts, the apostle Paul preaches that there is no place without its own witnesses to God, this God in whom we all “live and move and have our being.”  Does it make sense, then, that the God who is Creator of the whole universe---and Lover and Sustainer of all the world---has chosen to be known in only one religious tradition, which just fortunately happens to be our own? ii Anglican Bishop Michael Ingham comments, “If we took [that] to be true, it would mean that God condemns the vast majority of the world’s peoples to a hopeless and brutal destiny.”iii And how does this square with our faith in a loving and merciful God?  As Christians, we see everything through the particular lens of Jesus Christ. The gospels are our “canon within the canon,” the authority by which everything else in the Bible is to be evaluated. The gospels portray Jesus as a Jewish rabbi who honored all people, and did not exclude anyone from relationship with God---including members of other religious groups, like a Syro-Phoenecian woman, a Samaritan, and a Roman centurion, all of whom the religious establishment of Jesus’ day viewed as outside the circle of God’s love.  In Christ, we see a love that overleaps all the dividing lines we human beings try to draw between “us” and “them.” In the parable of the sheep and the goats, Jesus says: when it comes time to make such distinctions, it won’t be based on whether you’ve said the right words, or held the correct opinions, but on how you’ve lived your life. Some will say, “But Jesus, I didn’t know you!” and I will say to them, You knew me. “I was hungry and you fed me, I was naked and you clothed me…as you did it to the least of my brothers and sisters, you did it to me.”  Meanwhile others may have called themselves Christians, but the Master will say, You didn’t know me. “Depart from me, for I was hungry and you gave me no food, naked and you did not clothe me…” Jesus says outright: “Not everyone who says to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter the kingdom of heaven, but those who do my father’s will.” Now, Adolf Hitler called himself a Christian. Mahatma Gandhi was a devout Hindu. But which of them did God’s will?  The Jesus revealed in our gospels tells his disciples, who are worried about competitors in religion, “Don’t worry; whoever is not against us is for us.” He tells them, “In my Father’s house are many rooms.” He says, “I have other sheep, who are not of this fold.” When asked, how will we know who they are? Jesus says simply, “You will know them by their fruits.”  Isn’t it time, at this point in history, for us to claim this strand of our Christian tradition, the one exemplified by the magi, the one that Jesus taught and demonstrated? Isn’t it beyond time, in this global village where religious ignorance and arrogance are giving rise to torture and terrorism, where suspicion and hostility between religious groups are bringing potential for destruction on a whole new scale, for us to think again about what it truly means to be a follower in the way of Jesus Christ?  Theologian Thomas Berry speaks of what he calls “the microphase” and the “macrophase” of any religion. During its microphase, Berry says, when a religious tradition is still young and just forming, the tradition needs to protect its uniqueness by well-defined boundaries. It is like a newly planted sapling that requires care and protection in order to grow. During its microphase, the religion’s blessings are primarily for those who come within its self-defined boundaries. Those who “belong” to the tradition are the ones who benefit from its particular graces and ministrations.iv  During a religion’s macrophase, however, when it has grown up and is well-established, the tradition becomes more secure. It no longer needs to protect and isolate itself, or to defend its view of God---or even to imagine that God needs any defending! In fact, a religion in its macrophase actively seeks out points of contact with other faith traditions. It is open to dialogue—including mutual critique---and joins with others in service to the world.  Mother Teresa embodied this kind of mature faith when she said, “I love all religions, but I am in love with my own.”v In its macrophase, religion has no compulsion to impose itself on others, or to coerce or convert others to its own world view. Instead it becomes expansive, and freely offers its blessings to the world, with no strings attached.  Consider the magi, who were humble enough to follow a star, seeking new revelations of the divine. They must have known that if a religion is not growing, changing, and unfolding in new i these are from Diana Eck, A New Religious America (San Francisco: Harper, 2001), referenced by Marcus Borg in The Heart of Christianity: Rediscovering a Life of Faith (San Francisco: Harper Collins Publishers, 2003) p. 209 See also the results of the latest polls by Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life, 2007, widely available. ii Borg, Heart, p. 220 iii Michael Ingham, Mansions of the Spirit: The Gospel in a Multi-Faith World (Toronto: Anglican Book Centre, 1997) p. 61 iv John Philip Newell, The Rebirthing of God: Christianity’s Struggle for New Beginnings (Woodstock, Vermont: Skylight Paths Publishing, 2014) p. 46 ways, it is dying. The magi were willing to journey into unknown territory. And when they encountered the presence of God in a foreign land and among adherents of another religion, they bowed, as Matthew says, and “paid homage.” I’m intrigued by what theologian John Philip Newell suggests, that the world’s great religions have been given “not to compete with each other, but to complete each other.”vi The magi---the wise ones---were willing to acknowledge that while they belonged to God, God did not belong exclusively to them.  Then they knelt at the manger, and offered their gifts. Isn’t it time for Christianity to do the same? To enter our macrophase, and freely offer our treasures to the world? Not on the basis of whether people choose to become Christian and enter our household of faith, but on the basis of the gifts we have to offer for the well-being of all.  We have so much treasure to share! We hold within our scriptures the awareness of the earth’s sacredness, and a window into God’s will for the flourishing of all creation---treasures with which to bless the world. We’ve been taught practices like forgiveness, non-violent resistance to evil, and care for the poor and sick, foundational for the well-being of any society. In Jesus Christ---in his humility, compassion and honoring of all people---we’ve seen what spiritual maturity looks like, and what we human beings are called to become, full grown.  Let us look deeply into the nativity scene in Matthew’s gospel, at the magi offering their gifts, and see the way to peace on earth and goodwill among all people. Let us be among the wise ones of our time.  Amen.               v Quoted in Edward Le Joley’s book, We Do It for Jesus: Mother Teresa and Her Missionaries of Charity (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1998) vi Newell, Rebirthing, p. 43 