Gathering Light VI: “Dreaming the Way Forward” EUMC 1-11-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Habakkuk 2:1-3 & Acts 2:17  Years ago, I went on vacation to Northern California, where I stayed in a cottage on the coast. One morning, as I sat with a cup of coffee at the breakfast table there, I looked out the kitchen window and saw a woman walking down the beach.  The beach was deserted except for this one figure, walking along the water’s edge. The morning was beautiful: blue sky, sunrise gilding the sea. The woman was too far away for me to see her face, but she looked to be in her sixties---pretty old, I thought, at the time. Her gray hair was swept back by the ocean wind. She had on a sweater, and a long skirt swirling around her bare calves and feet.  I watched this woman for awhile, taking it in: the way she walked, seemingly at ease in her own skin. She appeared to be immersed in her surroundings, unselfconscious, and unconcerned about whether anyone else might be watching her. As she paused to look out at the water, then bent down to pick up a shell, I imagined that she was curious, intelligent, and appreciative. I thought, “I want to be like her.”  Now, I realize, of course, that I didn’t know any of these things about that real woman who was walking down the beach. I was projecting my own ideals onto her. But that night I wrote in my journal:  “The woman on the beach represents the person I want to become, five years from now, or ten years from now. She is at home in the world. She is at peace within herself, able to enjoy both solitude and other people. She loves God, and communes with God in nature. She is open-hearted, welcoming life with joy and generosity. She is not striving all the time. She fits the description in the Book of Proverbs, the line that says: ‘Strength and dignity are her clothing, and she laughs at the time to come.’ She is loving and wise.  “I hold her in my mind,” I went on, “so that I might grow into that woman, my best possible future self. So what needs to happen for me to become her? What changes need to be made? For instance, how does that woman spend her time, and with whom? What does she eat, buy, read? What does she do in a typical day? And how can I let this vision of my best future self, the person God is calling me to become, begin to shape my choices and actions now?”  Years later, that vision still goes before me. I try to let it guide me, by the power of attraction, into becoming what I have come to think of, in shorthand form, as “the woman on the beach.” And you know, I’m not that woman yet, not fully, but I feel myself growing in her direction.  And I have come to believe, over the years, that this is the way that people make lasting changes in their lives. Not by despising or rejecting who we are now, or feeling guilty about it and scolding ourselves all the time. And not by making big New Year’s resolutions and willing ourselves to change. But by the power of a compelling vision that goes before us, beckoning us into the future. By giving ourselves to that vision, day by day, and living our way into it.  Do you have a mental picture of your best self, the person you would most like to become? Of course, to be useful, a vision has to be within the realm of possibility. Notice that I didn’t picture my future self as a fashion model or the President of the United States. For in fact we don’t invent our own vision of the person God is calling us to become. We detect it. It’s already within us, like the outlines of an oak tree embedded within an acorn. It’s a gift from God, unique for every person, waiting to be realized. Do you have a sense of God’s vision for your life? When you look deeply within yourself, and envision your own highest potential coming into being, what do you see?  In recent years, hundreds of books have been written about the power of living toward a positive vision of the future. Studies have documented how the best athletes (like the Seahawks, for instance!) practice visualizing themselves winning the race or the game. High performers in business do the same: holding a picture of success in mind, then taking concrete steps toward it. Raphael, the great artist, was once asked how he came to produce such wonderful paintings. He replied, “I dream dreams and I paint them.”  Whether the goal is winning a game or painting a picture, building a bridge or cultivating a warm, loving family life, the outcome literally exists first in our minds, hearts, and imagination. Dreams and visions, intangible as they may seem, have tremendous power. They are the seeds of the future. They’re continually unfolding, taking us “from faith to faith” and “glory to glory,” i as the apostle Paul puts it. As we align our present actions and choices to be more congruent with our dreams and visions, we live them into being.  Here is the scary part of the power of vision. It’s almost impossible to rise above the vision you have of yourself, in any area of your life. How we see ourselves---or how we have been taught to see ourselves, for we hold visions up or down for one another---strongly shapes what we become. So our lives and our futures are limited by the absence of vision. Your life, your marriage, your career, your bank account, your health or your children are not likely to be grander than your dreams and visions for them.  When life falls short of our hopes and dreams---as it does, sometimes drastically so---it’s the vision of a better life, or a different future, that can give us the strength to carry on.  Victor Frankl was a psychologist who survived the death camps of Nazi Germany. While in the camps, he watched others who shared in the ordeal. He wanted to know what made it possible for some people to survive, when most died. The single most important factor, Frankl realized, was a sense of future vision. Those most likely to survive were those who could picture themselves someday writing about this experience, say, or locating a lost loved one, or raising a neighbor’s child. They held the conviction that they still had a mission to perform, some important work left to do.ii  An athlete endures long hours of training, day after day, because he or she holds the vision of setting a new record. A mother endures the painful labor of childbirth, sustained by the vision of her newborn baby. Hebrews 12:2 declares that Jesus endured the cross because of “the joy that was set before him.” Our dreams and visions can give us the strength to do great things, and love with great love. They can carry us through present sufferings, and into new life. What’s true for us as individuals is also true in our life together, as a Christian community. For we have been gifted with a vision of our best future self, and the world that God is calling into being. In fact, from beginning to end, the Biblical story is about the power of a compelling vision.  The ancient Hebrews escape from slavery, and wander through the desert for forty years…led by a vision of the Promised Land. The writer of Proverbs coins a phrase: “Where there is no vision, the people perish.” Later on, the prophets of Israel hold before them a picture of the future God desires for all people, where the lion will lie down with the lamb, and justice will roll down like waters…and this guiding vision shapes their common life.  When the Hebrews are again enslaved and living in exile in Babylon, they draw strength from the prophet Habakkuk, who envisions a future in which they will be freed, saying, in our text for this morning, “Write the vision, make it plain upon tablets, so that they may run who read it…” The prophet Jeremiah adds, “’For I know the plans I have for you,’ says God, ‘plans for good and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope.’”  Then Jesus steps into history, reiterating God’s vision for the world, which he calls the “Kingdom of God.” Jesus preaches about the Kingdom of God more than any other subject, and demonstrates its qualities in everything that he does. The Kingdom of God is his shorthand way of referring to what you and I know, in our bones, this world should be, and will be when God’s will is finally done on earth. It’s a picture of human beings living in peace with one another, and in harmony with all creation. The Kingdom of God is what Archbishop Desmond Tutu of South Africa calls “God’s dream for the world.”iii  The Bible ends with the Book of Revelation, and its glorious vision of the final fulfillment of God’s dream. Planet earth is finally the garden of Eden it was created to be. And there is no war or violence, hunger or sickness, sorrow or suffering, any more.  As Christians, we are a people constituted by this vision. It’s a gift from God, seeds of the future planted within us. We are to be a community that points to God’s plan for the world. Jesus says, “You are to be a light to the world, a city built on a hill.” As a community of Christ’s disciples, we are not yet the Kingdom of God, but we seek to be growing in that direction, drawn into God’s future by the power of its attraction.  Our task, as a community, is to hold that vision before us. And so we ask questions like: How do people in the Kingdom of God order their common life? How do they treat their children, their elders, their most vulnerable members? How do they spend their time and money? And how can this vision shape the way we live right now, guiding our present choices and behavior? How can we give ourselves to it, day by day, and live our way into it?  Quaker Jim Corbett speaks of what he calls “civil initiative.” He says that, in contrast to civil disobedience, civil initiative brings about change in the world by proposing and manifesting, more than by opposing and dismantling. That is, evil and oppression are resisted most effectively not by fighting, argument, or even passing resolutions, but by the visible, lived alternative of a community that steadfastly affirms and demonstrates what is holy and good. i Romans 1:17 & II Corinthians 3:18 ii Victor E. Frankl, Man’s Search for Meaning (New York: Pocket Books, 1959), pp. 164-66 iii Desmond Tutu with Douglas Abrams, God Has a Dream: A Vision of Hope for Our Time (New York: Doubleday, 2004) As with visions for our individual lives, this shared vision gives meaning and purpose to our days. It gives us the joy of participating in something bigger than ourselves. And when life in this world does fall short---when there is widespread fear and despair, for instance, like that sparked in Paris this week---it leads us to do things like stand in the public square, shoulder to shoulder, holding candles that form the message, “We are not afraid.” Our shared vision of what life could be and should be in this world gives us the strength to carry on.  Let us dream the way forward. “Where there is no vision, the people perish.”  Let us “write the vision, make it plain upon tablets, so that they may run who read it…”  “’For I know the plans I have for you,’ says God, ‘plans for good and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope.’”  Amen.                            