Gathering Light VII: “Living the Way of Non-violence” EUMC 1-16-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: *Matt. 5:38-42 & I Cor. 1:18-29  Today we come to the last in this sermon series called “Gathering Light.” Each Sunday in this series we have lifted up a theme from within our Christian tradition that---I believe---needs to be reclaimed and recast in order to bring gathering light to the rebirth of Christianity that is called for in our time.  Over these past six weeks, we have looked at the themes of: reconnecting with the earth, awakening compassion, nurturing spiritual practice, celebrating the light, honoring the wisdom of other faith traditions, and dreaming the way forward. Now this morning we come to the last of the seven themes, which is: living the way of non-violence.  To my mind, this is by far the most challenging. Is that true for you as well? All my life, as a Christian, I have struggled with Jesus’ teaching and example on this theme.  For it is true that Jesus renounced the use of violence, even for a righteous cause, and instructed his followers to do the same. He said, “Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you.” He said, “Blessed are the peacemakers,” and “Turn the other cheek.” Jesus preached forgiveness, mercy and love. When soldiers came to arrest him and his disciples prepared to fight, he said, “Put away your sword. For all who take the sword will perish by the sword.” In the end, he was willing to die---but not to kill---for the sake of the message he came to proclaim, which, as we saw last week, was all about the peaceable kingdom of God.  Which is a beautiful ideal. And as one who seeks to be a follower of Jesus, I want to embrace it. I do. And I believe, with Jesus, that violence is evil, that violence begets more violence, and that the only way to stop the spiral of violence is to stop being violent. I do believe that this world will not be saved by violence, but by human beings, empowered by grace, following the commandment to love as Jesus loved.  And yet…there is a part of me that also argues with Jesus on this theme. I think: well, violence can never be called a good thing. But given the harsh realities of this world, it may sometimes be the lesser of two evils. Violence can stop the Hitlers of the world; it can save vulnerable people from aggression. How else do you stop world leaders who carry out genocide, or terrorists who commit gruesome and barbaric crimes?  And what about self-defense? In principle, I want to love my enemy…and I try. I do. And I don’t think I’ve ever hit anyone in my life---with the possible exception of my sister when we were small. But I’m pretty sure that if I walked into a room where someone was actively hurting one of my grandchildren, and I had a weapon with which to stop them, I would use it. So maybe I am not really a follower of Jesus. Or maybe I am….but only up to a point. Maybe it’s more accurate to say that I aspire to the life of non-violence that Jesus practiced and preached….but I’m not there yet.  How about you? Do you struggle with this issue too? This weekend we celebrate the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who was not only a leader in the fight against racial segregation. He was also a Christian, a minister, and one who wrestled mightily with the question of how to fight evil in this world. Perhaps it would be helpful for us, this morning, to trace the spiritual journey that King traveled on what he called his “pilgrimage to nonviolence.”  At the age of five, young Martin responded to an altar call and dedicated his life to Jesus. But even then he was beginning to question some of the teachings of his father and grandfather, who were both fundamentalist preachers. While they were preaching about how human beings are totally sinful and powerless to change this evil world, but how someday God is going to rain down judgment on evildoers… Martin was forming his own ideas, as he encountered evil himself, in the form of racism.  His best childhood friend was a white boy, but when they reached school age, the boy’s parents put an end to their friendship. Martin was shocked, and when his anxious parents told him that he must show Christian love to white people, he asked, “How can I love people who hate me?” It seemed more logical to him to return hatred with hatred, and this conviction only gained strength when he was slapped, one day, by a white woman, and on another occasion, when he was angrily shoved to the back of a bus.  As a result, Martin announced in Sunday School, one morning, that he didn’t accept a passive, pie-in-the-sky Christianity any more. He was now a rationalist, he said: he believed that the world will be saved not by divine intervention but through the power of human reason. As you might gather, Martin was an unusually intelligent child. He skipped several grades, and entered college when he was only fifteen.  He went to college with the idea of becoming a lawyer, to combat evil with the power of reason. Once there, however, he met a professor of theology who was part of what was called the “Social Gospel” movement. While the church in which King had grown up stressed the hopelessness of this world and called Christians to focus their hopes on heaven, the Social Gospel called Christians to build the Kingdom of God on earth.  Martin became intensely interested in the possibility of a faith focused on social action. He abandoned his plans to study law and decided to become a minister. He went to seminary, then to Boston University for his Ph.D.. In Boston, King concluded that while his father’s tradition had overstressed the sinfulness of human nature, Protestant liberalism was overly optimistic about the goodness of human beings. Unlike many of his white teachers and classmates, he had seen the face of evil. He had experienced racial hatred and violence first-hand.  Now King came to the theological conclusion on which the rest of his life would be based. It was a synthesis of truths from both his conservative church background and his training in liberal theology. He said: the world’s evil will not be overcome by God acting without human participation, or by humans acting on their own. Social evil is overcome, King said, only when human willingness and God’s power are aligned. On our own, King acknowledged, we human beings can hardly fulfill Jesus’ command to love our neighbors, much less our enemies. It’s simply beyond us. But if we open ourselves in humility to the power and purposes of God, our human nature can be transformed. Our own limited capacity to love can be expanded, and God’s love can be released, through us, into the world.  It was at this time that King was introduced to the life and teachings of Mahatma Gandhi. King saw parallels between the teachings of Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount—love your enemy, turn the other cheek---and the practices of Gandhi, who led his people to independence through a strategy of non-cooperation with British rule. Gandhi spoke of satyagraha---which means something like soul-force, and includes the willingness to accept suffering without retaliation---as the greatest power in the world.  King ultimately traveled to India to study Gandhi’s teachings. Later he wrote, “Christ furnished the spirit and motivation, and Gandhi furnished the method.” His professors regarded King as one of the brightest students they’d ever had, and encouraged him to devote his life to scholarship. But he argued with them that all great theologians spend some time in the parish. And so, at age 25, he accepted an appointment to become pastor of Dexter Baptist Church in Montgomery, Alabama.  You know the rest of the story. It wasn’t long before King’s convictions, developed over ten years of study, were put to the test. Through a rapid series of events, he was catapulted into leading the famous Montgomery bus boycott, an action of nonviolent resistance that eventually dismantled the city’s segregated bus system. Subsequent years brought more challenges, as King led the civil rights movement that swept America.  King and his companions sought to follow Jesus by being willing to suffer—but not to inflict suffering---for the sake of what is right. He often quoted Romans 12:21: “Overcome evil with good.” Or today’s text from Corinthians: “For God’s foolishness is wiser than human wisdom, and God’s weakness is stronger than human strength.”  All of this required great courage. The movie “Selma,” released last week, makes that clear. King and his companions faced clubs and cattle prods, fire hoses turned on peaceful demonstrators, and police dogs loosed on children. He received hate mail and phone calls threatening his family, often as many as 25 in a day. He was imprisoned twelve times. He was stabbed in the chest. His home was bombed twice.  Through all these trials, however, King only became more convinced, as he said, “that the universe is under the control of a loving purpose, and that in the struggle for righteousness we have cosmic companionship.” He said that in his darkest hours, he could hear God’s voice saying to him, “Lo, I will be with you.” In pursuing the path of nonviolence, he said, we make the discovery that God is real, and that we are not alone. We are sharing in the very life of God, and participating with God in changing the world—wherever that takes us, whatever it might cost.  Well, what do you think? King, Gandhi, Jesus: were they right? They all suffered violent deaths at the hands of their enemies. Through their practice of non-violent resistance to evil, did the world change? Do we even get to know the results of our efforts, in our lifetimes? I think of Dr. King saying, in response to such questions: “You can’t decide how you are going to die. You can only decide how you are going to live.”  Which might be for us, conflicted as we are, a word of hope. Maybe we don’t have to speculate about what we would do under the most extreme duress, when faced, say, with someone who seeks to do violent harm to us or to someone we love. Maybe our own journey toward nonviolence can start smaller, in the simple acts and attitudes of our daily lives, and in circumstances more likely to occur, and occur more often.  We might notice the violence that arises in our heart, for instance, when a driver cuts us off on the freeway. Is there a way to “bless and release” that person, and let it go? Or the defensive anger we feel when belittled or criticized: can we figure out ways to soothe ourselves without verbally hitting back? Or the righteous, retaliatory response we have to hearing a terrible story on the evening news. Could we offer a prayer instead?  And as we recognize the root causes of violence in ourselves and in our world---like poverty, say, and ignorance, and fear---maybe we can support and participate in efforts to proactively address these issues. And maybe all these practices would shape us, day by day, into persons who—if and when confronted with extreme threat---would be better able to respond in a life-giving way.  It is often said that non-violence is not just a tactic, but a lifestyle to be practiced in every arena of human life. What might that mean for you? What would it look like in the place where you work, the neighborhood where you live? What would it mean for us to actively seek to follow Jesus---and to encourage and support each other along the way--- in our families and friendships, in this church, in everything we do? What if we were to commit ourselves to a “pilgrimage toward nonviolence”?  Let’s find out.  Amen.  