“Left Outside” a sermon for Belonging Sunday at EUMC 2-1-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Acts 3:1-10 & I Cor. 12:12-27  Well, today is the big game, and Seahawks fever is running high! Even churches are getting into the spirit. I’ve gotten a kick out of some of the messages that have appeared on church signs in our area.  Like the one on a Lutheran church that reads: “Jesus Had 12 Men Too.” And another that says, “No One Is Beyond God’s Help—Not Even the Patriots.” But the one I like best is on a church over in Bellevue, which reads: “God has no favorites. But the sign guy does. Go Hawks!”  So it seems especially appropriate, this morning, to begin with a story about football. Maybe you were one of the four million viewers who caught the You-Tube video of a CBS News “On the Road” segment that aired last year.i It’s about the football team at a middle school in Olivet, Michigan, a team of adolescent boys who acted in a way that is the opposite of the school bullying episodes we’ve heard so much about in recent years.  Here’s what happens in the video. A boy named Keith is walking to school. We are told that “Keith is learning-disabled and struggles with boundaries---in the sweetest possible way.” We can see his sweet nature for ourselves as he spontaneously embraces each student he meets. He calls out “Hug!” each time, without missing anyone in his path.  Keith is fairly small in stature and wears glasses. He approaches a large boy, saying, “Hug, Gabe!” Keith grabs Gabe around the waist. Gabe is wearing his football jersey. Gabe gives Keith a quick, manly sort of sidearm embrace, and the two walk on together.  The scene changes to the football field. The Olivet Eagles make an extraordinary play: two plays, actually. First they run the ball down the field but stop just short of the goal line, to the dismay of their coaches and fans. The team forms up for the next play. The ball is quickly passed to Keith. The team surrounds him in a protective embrace---a kind of group hug---and they hustle him across the line. Keith makes his first ever touchdown!  The team picks up Keith and carries him on their shoulders across the field. Keith flashes an enormous grin, shouting “Awesome!” CBS turns the camera on the quarterback, who gleefully exclaims, “We got this. We were going behind everyone’s back!” Unknown to their coaches and parents, the boys had planned for weeks how to pull off this play. The camera turns to the wide receiver, a boy named Justice, and the reporter asks him why they did it. He explains, “We wanted to prove that Keith is part of our team, and means a lot to us.”  Turn to our scripture for today, from the Book of Acts. It begins, “One day Peter and John were going up to the temple at the hour of prayer, at three o’clock in the afternoon.” Peter and John, as you know, were a team. They’d been friends from youth; they were partners as fishermen; they both received the baptism of John; they both accompanied Jesus to the mount of the Transfiguration. They ran to the tomb together; and after the resurrection, they traveled around together, preaching the good news that God graciously heals and restores lives.  So now Peter and John are going up to the temple together “at the hour of prayer, at three o’clock in the afternoon.” Prayer could be offered at any time or place, but for devout Jews, the ritual of praying at three designated times each day---9 a.m., noon, and 3 p.m.--was important. And if you were in Jerusalem, it was special to offer prayer in the Courts of the Holy Temple.  The temple itself exuded opulence. King Herod had adorned it with gold-decorated roofs and marble columns. According to the Jewish historian, Josephus, the stones used in its construction were so exceedingly white that, from a distance, it resembled a glistening mountain of snow.  The temple also represented exclusion. The lame and the blind were prevented from entering its inner courts. Some point to passages in the ancient texts discovered at Qumran as the rationale for this longstanding discrimination against physically disabled people. Also excluded were Gentiles, meaning non-Jews. And Jewish women were given only restricted access.  We are not to miss the detail that on their way to the temple, Peter and John proceed toward what was called the “Beautiful Gate.” Ironically, the gate called beautiful performed the ugly task of demarcating “insiders” and “outsiders.” For some, the gate stood as an entryway into the blessed community that gathered in the temple. For others, it stood as a barrier reminding them that they were viewed as unworthy of blessing, and unwelcome inside sacred space.  As Peter and John are walking toward the Beautiful Gate, “a man who was lame from birth was being carried in. People would lay him daily at the gate of the temple called the Beautiful Gate so that he could ask for alms from those entering the temple.” Acts 4:22 tells us that this man was over 40 years old. From birth, we are told, he was lame. Which means his parents never saw him take a first step. He could not share in the games of other children. When he came to adulthood, he was unable to work, so he had to beg. Every day someone would bring him to the same spot, leave him there at the Beautiful Gate, and pick him up again that evening.  It was a good place to beg, beside the gate through which people were going to the temple. In Hebrew society, wealth was considered a loan from God, and the poor had a certain claim on the possessions of the rich. The rich were instructed to share God's bounty with the poor. The lame man begged with this expectation in mind.  Now comes the key action of this text. It’s a “game changer,” you might say. Most people passing through the gate would avert their eyes from the lame man, distressed or embarrassed by his condition, and toss a few coins onto his blanket, or not. Others would hurry by, not even seeing him, they’re so used to him being there, day after day---the way we do, perhaps, when we drive past a street corner where a panhandler holds a cardboard sign. But Peter and John see the disabled man, and come to a full stop. Our text says that they “look intently” at him, and invite him to look intently at them.  The Greek word that appears here is atenizo, from which we get our English word “attention.” Peter and John now focus their full, loving attention on the man who is lame. Here and throughout the Book of Acts, Luke uses this word atenizo to mean a kind of “looking intently” that opens people’s eyes to a deeper presence, a deeper reality. When people “look intently” in the Book of Acts, they become more aware of the sacredness of that upon which they gaze. I can’t explain the healing power of God, but I believe in it. How could I not? I’ve experienced it! So often you and I have no time or inclination to “look intently” at anything, even the people closest to us, let alone a discomforting stranger who intrudes on our plans for the day. But when, by God’s grace, we stop and look deeply and lovingly at one another, something of God is awakened or set free.  I suspect that the beggar lying beside the Beautiful Gate had himself come to believe that he was useless and a burden. Perhaps no one ever looked intently with love upon him. But Peter and John look beyond the superficialities of his physical condition and social standing. They see this man, and treat him, as a brother in Christ, as a valuable and beautiful child of God. In their seeing, the man sees something new in himself. And the healing power of God is released.  The man looks steadily back at Peter and John. Expecting charity, he doesn’t think to hope for more. Peter says, “I have no silver or gold, but what I have I give you; in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, stand up and walk.” He reaches out a hand; the man’s eyes widen; and the text goes on: “And he took him by the right hand and raised him up; and immediately [the man’s] feet and ankles were made strong. Jumping up, he stood and began to walk, and he entered the temple with them, walking and leaping and praising God.”  The one who had been “left outside” the community all his life…is invited in. The one who has been excluded and ostracized is embraced---and healed. Can’t you just see him, on his way into the temple, leaping and praising God? He flashes an enormous grin, shouting “Awesome!” Peter exclaims, “We got this. We were going behind everyone’s back!” And John explains to the gathering crowd, “We wanted to prove that he is part of our team, and means a lot to us.”  Notice what happens next. “All the people saw him walking and praising God, and they recognized him as the one who used to sit and ask for alms at the Beautiful Gate of the temple; and they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him.” In other words, not just one person’s life is changed by this encounter. The whole community is freshly aware of the presence of God in their midst. The community, too, is healed and transformed.  Go back to that video on You-Tube, the CBS camera still trained on the young wide receiver. The reporter presses him, asking, “Why did this affect you so much?” And we, watching this news story, are witness to another powerful moment. Tears form in the boy’s eyes and begin to spill down his cheeks. He’s a teenage boy on national TV, but he doesn’t reach up and dash the tears away, or hang his head in embarrassment.  Instead he seems to be processing his thoughts and feelings aloud as he says slowly, “Keith’s never been like, cool or popular. He went from, like, being a nobody to making everyone’s day…I went from mostly caring about myself and my friends to caring about everyone.” CBS concludes the news story with the line, “This may have been the most successful play of all time.” Luke, our scripture writer, would agree.  When any one of us is no longer “left outside,” all of us are made more whole.  Amen. i Thanks to Lisa Ashley for pointing me to this video, which can be viewed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ejh_hb15Fc.  