“A Theology of Place” a sermon preached at EUMC 2-8-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Psalm 84:1-7 & Acts 17:24-28  What comes to mind when you hear the words “sacred place”? Close your eyes, if you like, and picture the physical setting that makes you feel most deeply at home in the world, most truly yourself, and closest to God.  For many of us, the place that comes to mind is the natural landscape of our childhood. I grew up in Southern California, for instance. When I close my eyes and picture the geography that was my first spiritual home, I see blue sky, the sloping shoulders of tanned hills, and a glittering sea. I smell eucalyptus trees and fresh oranges. I recognize a certain quality of light, and a balmy weight in the ocean air.  I call to mind a memory of myself as a child on roller skates, holding my arms out to the sides and being literally blown down the street---along with several tumbleweeds---by a hot Santa Ana wind. Or being on the school playground, a silent shadow moving across the black pavement, and looking up to see a huge California condor gliding overhead.  When you picture the landscape that is most primal or central in your psyche, what do you see? Perhaps it is not where you grew up, but a place you visited or in which you settled down. Perhaps it is right here in the Pacific Northwest. Perhaps your first or strongest memories are located in this mossy landscape of gray mists and green forests, silvered logs on old beaches, and the Olympic Mountains floating above a blue haze.  To hold such landscapes in mind is to begin to understand the importance of place in our lives. It’s to begin to understand why we feel a sudden kinship with a stranger who, we discover, grew up in the same locale that we did. And why people come again and again to worship here in this sanctuary, and why some feel more at home sitting in the same pew---the same place---every week. It is to begin to understand why, when we speak of our spiritual journeys, we tell stories of times and places in which God has been most real to us.i  Our Bible begins with the awareness that we human beings are finite creatures. If the infinite God is to be revealed to us, it has to be within the particularities of time and place---that is to say, of history and geography----in which we humans live. Hence the Bible points to a God who not only creates this world, but also inhabits it. The Psalms speak of the earth as God’s temple, the place of God’s abode. The gospels tell of a God who takes on human flesh and dwells among us. The message of the Bible is that God is not only “enthroned afar” but also truly, deeply present in the earthly places of our human lives.  The ancient Hebrews also had this strong sense of God’s presence in particular locations. They told the story of Jacob, who had been sent into exile by his mother, who had feared that her twin sons would kill each other. Just as Jacob was heading into the unknown territory of a new land, he slept and dreamt of a ladder that connected heaven and earth, with messengers of light ascending and descending all around him. When he awoke, he said, “Surely the Lord was in this place---and I didn’t know it…this is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.”ii He erected a stone on that site, and poured oil upon it, to create an altar in the world. Later on, after they’d crossed over the Jordan River into the Promised Land, the Hebrews took twelve stones from the river, each representing one of the twelve tribes of Israel. They erected a monument, as the Book of Joshua records: “that this may be a sign among you, when your children ask in time to come, ‘What do these stones mean?’ Then you shall tell them”iii about how God liberated their people from slavery, and led them through this river to freedom. The stones marked the spot as a place where the presence of God had been revealed.  If we were fully enlightened beings, we would probably realize that the gateway to heaven is everywhere on earth. But for most of us, this is to easier to grasp in some places than in others. And so human beings—like the ancient Hebrews---have always pointed to certain locations where God has been encountered in an especially powerful way.  Over time, these have been marked with stones and altars, and later with temples and shrines. Such sacred places often become the destination points of pilgrimage, like Jerusalem, Rome, or Mecca. Two summers ago, you may remember, I went on pilgrimage to sacred sites in the British Isles. I visited places like the island of Iona, which draws 200,000 pilgrims each year.  There’s something immensely powerful about praying in a space where people have chanted prayers and lit candles and left offerings, for thousands of years. But other places, too, not necessarily recognized as sacred places, become important to us in our own individual lives. I can list some of those in my spiritual journey: like Yosemite National Park, the Oregon coast, Holden Village in the Cascade Mountains, and the first church I served as pastor, Wallingford United Methodist Church in Seattle, which, like many sacred sites, is quite literally built over a wellspring of living water (just ask the Trustees about that).  Is this true for you, too? Can you name particular places where you have sensed the presence of God, the God who is actually present everywhere? That’s the function of sacred places, after all. By their beauty or history or connection with particular events in your life, they invite you into fuller awareness of the presence of God in all places and all lives. In our text for today, from the Book of Acts, the apostle Paul puts it this way:  From one ancestor God made all nations to inhabit the whole earth, and allotted the times of their existence and the boundaries of the places where they would live, so that they would search for God and grope for God and perhaps find God—though indeed [the Holy One] is not far from each one of us. For “In God we live and move and have our being.”iv  Why do we look, today, at this theme of “a theology of place”? Why is it so important for us to reclaim, from within our Christian tradition, a sense of God that begins in the particularities of specific places, but points us to the sacredness of all the earth?  I can think of two reasons. The first, and probably the most obvious, is what the apostle Paul calls “the groaning of creation.” The environmental crises of our time pose an urgent need for us to rediscover what we’ve neglected, or forgotten: that God is known in and through all the landscapes on earth. That the earth is not some thing that God created and left, for us to use or abuse. It is deeply infused with Spirit. The ecological crisis is a spiritual crisis.  Thomas Berry, who died in 2009, might be called the first Christian prophet of the protection of the earth. A theologian and cultural historian by training, Berry preferred to call himself a “geologian.” He drew theology’s attention to painful realities like the “extinction spasm” that is now occurring in places around the globe. Over three hundred species a week are becoming extinct, in part because of how we humans are choosing to live---or more precisely, not to live---in relationship with the natural world. In the last century we have undone much of what it took the earth four billion years to evolve.  What is urgently needed, Berry said, is what he called “a theology of radical immanence.” Given the excessive orientation of Christian theology toward the “wholly Otherness of God,” especially in the last few hundred years, he said, “we need to move from a spirituality of alienation from the natural world to a spirituality of intimacy with the natural world.”v  I think of a line I once heard that has stayed with me: “That which we refuse to contemplate, we will tend to exploit.” If, for instance, we see geographical “place” only as a surface reality and in utilitarian terms, the earth becomes vulnerable to exploitation, especially manipulation for short-term gain. But if we contemplate God’s presence within any place, we become aware that we are standing on holy ground. Like Moses before the burning bush, we take off our shoes. We treat that place with reverence and respect.  Which brings us to the second reason for renewing and developing a Christian “theology of place.” Much has been written in recent years about the rootlessness, or “placelessness” of modern life. As biblical scholar Walter Brueggemann writes, “The sense of being lost and homeless is pervasive in contemporary culture. Loss of place, and yearning for place, are dominant images.”vi  Add to these the factors of increased mobility, a workforce that’s expected and often required to be transient, fast-food chains, stores and strip malls that look pretty much the same in every place, and the rise of electronically-generated ‘virtual’ places…and our sense of dislocation deepens. Pastor and scholar Eugene Peterson, who wrote the popular paraphrase of the Bible called The Message, says: “We live much of our lives in exile, so to be able to spot the people and places that re-establish our true identity is so important.”vii  In his book entitled, This Place on Earth, Alan Durning, a globe-trotting researcher, describes the experience that led him to move back to his hometown of Seattle, and put down deeper roots. He was, he says, in the Philippines, interviewing members of remote hill tribes about their land and livelihood. As he tells it:  …a gap-toothed chief showed me the trees, streams and farm plots that his tribe had tended for centuries. It was territory, he insisted, that they would defend with their lives. As the sun finally slid lower in the sky, he introduced me to a frail old woman who was revered by the others….We sat under a sacred tree near her farm and looked out over the river. She asked through an interpreter, “What is your homeland like?”viii  Durning found her question embarrassing. “She repeated her question, thinking I had not heard. ‘Tell me about your place.’ Again, I could not answer. The truth was, I lacked any connection to the city where my family lived at that time. ‘In America,’ I finally admitted, ‘we have careers, not places.’ Looking up, I recognized pity in her eyes.”  I can understand Durning’s subsequent decision to come home, to re-find and reclaim his own place in the world. Because I, too, don’t want geography to be mere scenery, a generic backdrop against which I have experiences. I want to bow before the dignity and innate mystery of the landscape where I am placed, and out of which my experience grows.  I don’t want to move through this world as a tourist, skimming along the surface and collecting souvenirs. I want to be a pilgrim, looking for the presence of God in every place.  And I want to live out my days---whether in the Southwest or here in the Pacific Northwest, both of which are part of me now---with a resonating sense of being at home in the world. I want to live in a landscape that I know and love. A place to which I am committed. A place where I live in community with my neighbors. A place through which I commune, ever more intimately, with God.  Is this true for you, too?  This sanctuary is a sacred place. Picture us here right now, and let it sink into our bones: the pearl-gray clouds, the slate of sea, the salt-tang of cool morning air, the gulls in a row on the roof, the breathing of people around us, the light filtering through the soft colors of stained glass. Let us rest here, this morning, and be renewed. Let us know ourselves to be deeply at home, truly ourselves, and close to God.  Amen.            i Thanks for thoughts in this paragraph to a sermon preached by the Rev. Donald W. Henderson at the First Congregational Church of Camden, Maine, on August 9, 1981, shared with me by Larry Nilson. ii Genesis 28:10-17 iii Joshua 4:1-7 ivI’ve read that in the town of New Harmony, Indiana, there is a place of prayer called “the Roofless Church.” I hope to worship there sometime. The sanctuary of the church has four defining walls, but no roof: it sits wide open to the elements. Its founder built the Roofless Church more than fifty years ago with the idea that our holy gathering spaces must not be closed in or closed off, but continually open outward to all the places, people, creatures, and cultures of this one world that God loves, and inhabits. v Thomas Berry, The Great Work (New York: Bell Tower, 1999), ix and 164, summarized and quoted by John Philip Newell in The Rebirthing of God (Woodstock, Vermont: Skylight Paths, 2014) pp. 10-11 vi Walter Brueggemann, The Land (Philadelphia: Fortress, 1977) vii Eugene Peterson, The Wisdom of Each Other: A Conversation Between Spiritual Friends (Grand Rapids: Zondervan) p. 85, quoted in Leonard Hjalmarson, No Home Like Place: A Christian Theology of Place (Portland: Urban Loft Publishers, 2014) p. 173 viiiviii Alan Durning, This Place on Earth: Home and the Practice of Permanence (Seattle: Sasquatch, 1996) p. 3, quoted in the Foreward to Hjalmarson’s book noted above, pp. 17-18, and written by Loren Wilkinson 