“Making Love Last” a sermon on St. Valentine’s Day weekend EUMC 2-15-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Ecclesiastes 4:9-12 & I Corinthians 13 (Message)  In preparation for today’s sermon, I studied the Bible, interviewed a therapist I respect very much, reflected on my own years as a pastor and as a counselor, and looked at several good books on relationships. I also solicited input from you, the members of this congregation, by sending out an e-mail inviting your responses to the question, “In your experience and observation, what makes for a healthy and long-lasting marriage, partnership, or friendship?”  Today you have the chance to hear from each other on this topic. And there is so much corporate wisdom in this room! Consider this e-mail that came from Normagene Gavin:  Jim and I have been married 70 years as of last January 18th . When I turned 14, he started taking me home from school on his bike, so we have a real history. We have always enjoyed each other, and still do. He just bought me my 75th box of valentine chocolates.  The big challenge, this morning, is how to organize all this rich material into something that can be said in fifteen minutes! So consider this sermon simply a starting point for continued conversation. We’ll follow an outline of three parts, each clustered under a biblical text.  First we’ll look at things that are destructive in relationships, warning signs to watch out for if you’re seeking long-lasting love. Then the bulk of our time will be spent on naming some of the habitual practices that contribute to long-lasting marriages, partnerships, and friendships. Finally we’ll consider the meaning of the “third cord” in today’s text from Ecclesiastes. So here we go. Our first scripture reading, naming some of the things that work against long-lasting love relationships, comes from the 4th chapter of Ephesians:  So then, putting away falsehood, let us speak the truth to our neighbors, for we are members of one another. Be angry but do not sin; do not let the sun go down on your anger…Let no evil talk come out of your mouths, but only what is useful for building up, so that your words may give grace to those who hear. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God… Put away from you all bitterness and wrath and wrangling and slander, together with all malice.  Well, there’s a mouthful of things to avoid if your goal is a lasting love relationship! Dishonesty, evil talk, bitterness, wrath, wrangling, slander, malice….does that sound like any relationship you know?  One of the intriguing lines in this text is “Be angry, but do not sin.” Which holds the implicit acknowledgement that conflict and anger are inevitable in any relationship. No two individuals are exactly the same in their values, outlooks, opinions, or temperaments, or should they be! And life itself, over time, will inevitably bring external challenges. The question, then, is how two people can work out their differences and deal with stressors in ways that are helpful, rather than harmful, to their relationship.  One of the great resources we have here in our area is the work of John Gottman, Professor Emeritus of Psychology at the University of Washington. Gottman has conducted years of research and written numerous books about relationships. i ii He’s gained some notoriety by his claim that he can predict, within five minutes of observing a married couple in his laboratory, whether their marriage will end in divorce. So far, he says, he has done this with 91% accuracy!  Gottman identifies four warning signs to look for in the way that a couples deals with conflict, which he refers to as “the four horses of the apocalypse.” The four horses you really want to keep at bay, he says, are: criticism, contempt, defensiveness, and cold withdrawal. When these become habitual patterns of communication between two people, they can easily harden into perpetually negative thoughts and feelings. Not surprisingly, perpetually negative thoughts and feelings have profound consequences for how partners in a relationship treat each other.  The writer of Ephesians names: “evil talk, bitterness, wrath, wrangling, slander, malice.” Such habitual practices can prompt partners to flee into infidelities and other forms of betrayal. They can cause a widening icy emptiness between two people, or spiral progressively downward into living nightmares of verbal and/or physical abuse.  So here at the outset I want to acknowledge a harsh truth: that not all couples should stay together. Sometimes the negativity has gone too far and the damage done is just too great. Over the years, I have come to believe that divorce is always a tragedy---but sometimes, in some circumstances, it may be the lesser of two evils. Ending a relationship may be preferable to staying in one that has become dangerously entrenched in patterns of destructiveness.  But certainly most marriages, partnerships, and important friendships can succeed. When other habits of interaction are cultivated and brought to bear, differences in a relationship can actually become opportunities for growth. Hardships and difficulties can even become initiations into deeper love. How does this happen? What factors move a relationship in that direction? Turn to a second scripture for this morning, from Colossians 3:  As God’s chosen ones, holy and beloved, clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience. Bear with one another and, if anyone has a complaint against another, forgive each other; just as the Lord has forgiven you... Above all, clothe yourselves with love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony.  I ask you: what is the opposite of contempt, which Gottman says is the #1 killer of relationships? The opposite of contempt for another person is love and respect. And from the e-mails that you sent this week, all of you agree with Gottman that what most everyone is looking for, and needs to give and receive in important relationships, are these two things: love and respect.  It’s important to note, here, that love and respect are not only—or even mainly---emotions. They are attitudes of the heart, expressed in concrete actions. Feelings like passion, delight and even joy come and go, to be welcomed and celebrated. But love---or agape, in the Greek of the New Testament---is an act of will, an unwavering devotion to the well-being of another person. Agape is a commitment to demonstrate love even when you do not feel it. In fact, when you persistently “do love” toward another person, an amazing thing often happens. Your loving actions generate loving feelings. It’s often said that John Wesley, the founder of Methodism, used to tell his ministers to “preach faith until you have it, then preach it all the more.” A parallel is true in relationships: Practice love until you feel it, then love all the more. How do you practice unwavering devotion to the well-being of another? Listen to some of the advice of your friends here in church:  One person writes: “Love each other intentionally and purposefully.” Another says: “it takes time and energy to keep the connection vital. …We must honor our loved ones by expressing our love in words, hugs, and the gift of time spent together.” Make the relationship a priority, you say. Bring to it your best energy and resources. One couple draws up this list:  “Communicate clearly about your daily life together. Don’t go to bed angry and keep as much humor in your relationship as you can. Touch, hold hands, kiss whenever the moment presents itself. Support each other in independent ventures. If you have children living at home, find time for a date night. Find fun ways to let your spouse know they are loved.” Notice that none of the things on this list are feelings, but actions that demonstrate love and respect.  Others offere similar counsel: “Consider and treat your spouse as your best friend and teammate.” “Throw in honesty, respect, caring and trust in each other, enjoyment in sharing our projects and interests and willingness to set aside our own personal desires if they are in conflict with or would bring pain to the other.” At the same time, remember that every relationship, like every individual, is unique. “Reinvent your lives together” as you go, and constantly support each other’s freedom to grow and change.  Many of you stress communication. “ Communicate frequently,” you wrote, “ about money, sex, religious beliefs, in-laws, jobs, friends, likes, dislikes, hopes, dreams, children…” A man writes: “What I consider vital is listening. Really listening, giving your full attention… Listening can be a very personal, intimate offering -- a gift that, in the moment, only you can ‘give.” Kindness is another recurrent theme. You write: “We often treat those we love the most with our very worst behavior ---try not to do that.” And: “The little things are often the big things---when I'm in a rush getting out the door, finding my windshield freshly scraped on an icy cold morning is, well, a romantic gesture!”  Many of you emphasize the importance of humor. I enjoyed one message that begins: “Bill and I will be celebrating 48 years of marriage this summer... I often wonder how this happened. Seriously, I mean it...” Another cites a book entitled A Marriage Made in Heaven … Or: Too Tired for an Affair. Another writes: “There isn't much I love more than to lie awake at night, giggling with my sweetheart while the kids snooze. After working hard to juggle our jobs and family responsibilities, a little silliness goes a long way to bring each of us back to ourselves.” You also add: “are we allowed to give a shout out for sex and other forms of physical intimacy? I know it's church and all, but God does want us to love one another!”  Many of you also highlight the willingness to overlook each other’s faults and foibles. One woman writes: “My mother used to say: ‘if you don't like something about him, zip your lip and change the subject.’ You have no idea how often I’ve thought of her advice.” Another says: “Practice patience and forgiveness; we're all a work in progress.” And: “Say ‘I'm sorry’--- plain and simple. Don't say, ‘I'm sorry, but...’ Leave your ‘but’ out of your apology!” And almost all of you advise sticking with it, even when hardships come. A man writes: “Any relationship with depth or substance will experience dark times, some worse than others. We choose how to respond. We can ‘love’ more or we can ‘love’ less. I try my best to always love more.” A woman writes: “Don’t give up. Relationships can turn around with good support, friends and lots of prayer. Learn to listen with your heart and be slow to respond. God has placed in us the ability to heal through love. It is the strongest power in the universe.”  Notice that all of you are writing about things to do to nourish an important relationship. Not about trying to feel feelings, but about words and actions that demonstrate love and respect. Gottman, the marriage expert in Seattle, maintains that for a relationship to thrive, day to day, there must be a precise, scientifically provable ratio of five to one. That is, for every negative interaction between the two people, there must be five positive interactions. Thus, Gottman says, his best advice is “to revere each other and be grateful that you are in each other’s life.”iii  Which brings us to our last scripture, from Ecclesiastes, chapter 4: “Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their toil. For if they fall, one will lift up the other…Again, if two lie together, they keep warm…And though one might prevail against another, two will withstand one. A threefold cord is not quickly broken.” The first few lines of this passage make sense: “Two are better than one.” But what is the writer referring to in the last line, “A threefold cord is not quickly broken”? What is the “third cord”?  The image here is of a third partner, or a third reality in a relationship, to which both parties are devoted together. This third reality gives the relationship shared meaning and purpose. It is a source of unity and strength to which both partners can turn. In a Christian marriage, this third cord is God, which makes the marriage covenant very difficult to break.  I think of an elderly couple I once knew who told me that every night before sleep they would lie in bed, holding hands, and pray for each other, their loved ones, the community, and the world. Such a beautiful image, and it was how they lived, too. When you see your relationship as a ministry from God, given to bless not only you but others too, that’s a powerful third cord.  So let me close with excerpts of two more e-mail messages, from such couples in this congregation. After almost 44 years of marriage, Beth and Bruce Cooke write: “You may not know exactly where you are going but the joy should be in the journey. Be flexible…Remain intimate… Cherish each day and its gift of time, place, and people. Be aware always of Christ's love for you, your partner, and your relationship. Expeditions require lots of work, but the payoff is priceless!”  And from our beloved Lay Leaders, the spiritual elders of this tribe, Floyd and Janet Barker: “The obvious answers are love, communication, trust, troth pledged is troth kept, etc. But, as important are --a compromising spirit and the understanding that we entered into this marriage with the mindset that failure was not an option. 58 years later, here we are, thankful for those years and looking forward to the future, one day at a time.”  Thanks be to God! Amen.  i See three books by Gottman that I looked at for this sermon, and highly recommend, in this order: Why Marriages Succeed or Fail…and How You Can Make Yours Last (New York: Simon & Schuster, 1994); John Gottman and Nan Silver, The Seven Principles for Making Marriage Work (New York: Three Rivers Press, Random House, 1999); and John Gottman and Nan Silver, What Makes Love Last? (New York: Simon & Schuster, 2012) ii Two other books I reviewed and recommend: Adam Hamilton, Making Love Last a Lifetime: Biblical Perspectives on Love, Marriage, & Sex (Nashville: Abingdon Press, 2004) and Sue Johnson, Love Sense: The Revolutionary Science of Romantic Relationships (New York: Little, Brown & Company, 2013) iii Gottman, What Makes Love Last? p. 237 