“What Kind of King Is Jesus?” 1st Sunday in Lent at EUMC 2-22-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Zechariah 9:9-10 & Mark 11:1-11  Two weeks ago, I received a phone call from my sister, who is undergoing treatment for breast cancer. In the course of our conversation, I made a comment to the effect, “We’ll probably find out someday that the cause of so much cancer today is something we are doing to ourselves. Some poison we’ve put into our environment, or some kind of chemicals we’re using…”  “Yes,” my sister said, “or some by-product of our lifestyle, like the Romans who died of lead poisoning after building a water-supply system using lead pipes.” And then my sister, who has strong opinions about a number of things, was off and running in a comparison of the ancient Roman Empire and the American Empire of today.  There are so many parallels, she said. Rome was a republic that built and ruled an empire: so are we. Rome set up an economic system by which the world’s wealth would flow into it: so do we. Romans felt entitled to tribute from subject nations: Americans consume 75% of the world’s resources, and consider it our right. And Rome enforced that whole set-up through laws and military might: we send in armies of occupation, too, wherever our economic “interests” need protecting. Which pretty much means we’re fighting wars in far-off places most of the time.  My sister went on. (Can you tell that she is a college professor?) And then there are the cultural similarities, she said. The growing gulf between rich and poor, and a shrinking middle class. Did you read the news just a few months ago, she said, that 1% of the U.S. population now owns more wealth than all the rest of us combined? In spite of our noble ideals about democracy, our country---like Rome---is really controlled by a wealthy elite. And we have our own slave class: what else do you call the millions of undocumented workers on whom our economy depends?  And don’t even get me started on the moral state of our society, she said. Promiscuity and pornography. The use of sex to sell everything from cars to toothpaste. The celebration of violence: just turn on the TV any night of the week. Entertainment that glorifies winners and revels in the public humiliation of losers: look at all the shows in which people compete until only one is left standing, from singers to cooks to bachelors to our own gladiatorial athletes. Haven’t you ever noticed how our sports stadiums resemble the Roman Coliseum?  OK, I said. Can we talk about something else now? Sure, she said, as long as you let me add the super-patriotism and inflated self-importance that were rampant in Rome just before it fell. It all adds up to two very similar histories. And we know what history does, over and over again…  Ok! I said. I get it. But it’s hard to hear. Because most of the Romans I know—I mean, most of the Americans I know---are good and decent people. We may hold positions of privilege in the world by accident of where we were born, and for which we are grateful. But most of the people I know, as individuals, are honest, responsible, and hard-working. They’re not trying to hurt or oppress anybody. They’re faithful to family and friends, generous toward the less fortunate, and trying to do some good in the world.  That’s not the point, my sister said. The issue is not our character---good or bad---as individuals, but our participation in economic and political systems that we have shaped and enforced… which do hurt and oppress others, and from which we benefit.  Well, that was a sobering phone call. I’m reminded of the saying that “the gospel is bad news before it is good news.” In other words, the world we live in---and participate in---is messed up. We may not have personally created all the structures of evil and injustice in the world, but given their existence and our places within them, what shall we do?  As Christians, we believe that Jesus embodies God’s answer to human sin---and not just personal sin, but social, economic, and political sin as well. Jesus shows us the way to a transformed world, a world of justice, prosperity, and peace. And his way---God’s way of healing the world---is revealed most clearly in the events of the last week of his life, which we call “Holy Week.”  So this morning we start our Lenten journey through the unfolding of that final, holy week. We will follow the themes in a book that inspired this series and that I want to recommend to you. It’s entitled The Last Week, by Marcus Borg and John Dominic Crossan.i The journey begins, as they point out, with two processions into the city of Jerusalem.  The first procession, on a spring day in the year 30, was led by Pontius Pilate, the governor of the region. Historians record that Pilate and a contingent of Rome’s finest led a parade of cavalry and foot soldiers into Jerusalem through the western entrance to the city. It was---and was intended to be---an impressive display of Roman power and might.  Imagine the spectacle of that procession. It was led by golden eagles mounted on poles, emblems of the empire that ruled, like a powerful predator, over the Hebrews and their Holy City. There were cavalry soldiers mounted on prancing war steeds. Foot soldiers clad in leather armor, polished to a high gloss. On each centurion’s head, a helmet of hammered metal. At each one’s side, a sword crafted from the hardest steel. In his hands, each soldier carried a spear, or if he were an archer, a bow, with a quiver of arrows slung across his back.  They march into the city, row upon military row, kicking up a swirling cloud of dust. Sunlight glints on all that metal and gold. There is the marching of feet, the clanking of weapons, the ominous beating of drums. All of it calculated to inspire fear and awe in the silent onlookers. Which was especially important this week, when Jerusalem was crowded with pilgrims, and the city had swelled to six times its normal population.  The pilgrims had streamed into Jerusalem for the Jewish festival of the Passover, which the Romans allowed. It was also standard practice for the Roman governor of a foreign territory to be in its capital for religious celebrations. So Pilate has to be present, coming in from the seaside palace where he prefers to spend his time. But it could not have been lost on Pilate and his advisors that Passover was a celebration of the liberation of the Jews from a previous empire, the empire of Egypt. Hence this show of Roman strength today.  Ever since the Romans had occupied this land some eighty years previously, rebellion had been always in the air. The Jews were a people with a long memory and stubborn hope. Their last major rebellion had been twenty-six years before, after the death of Herod the Great, who was king at the time Jesus was born. That uprising had started in Galilee, about five miles from Jesus’ boyhood home in Nazareth. It had been swiftly and brutally put down.  After that the Romans had marched on Jerusalem. There they crucified over 2,000 Jews who were accused of being part of the uprising. Crucifixion was the method of execution used for insurrectionists. The horrifying sight of 2,000 crosses lining the roads into Jerusalem had effectively intimidated the population. The Roman Empire had made its intolerance of rebellion well-known. Thus was the Pax Romana, the famous “Roman peace,” maintained.  On this spring day, Pilate’s procession into Jerusalem is meant to remind the Jews of what had happened the last time a major uprising was attempted. It sends a warning to anyone who, fired up by the excitement of Passover, might be foolishly plotting against Rome. The Temple would be the center of Passover activity. The Roman garrison, built adjacent to the Temple compound, would serve as a good vantage point from which to keep an eye on the Jews. With a calculating, cool confidence, Pilate’s procession proceeds in that direction.  Now, a second procession into Jerusalem was also taking place on that same day. At the time it must have seemed vastly less important. This procession, led by a Jewish rabbi coming in from the countryside, enters on the opposite side of the city. And there is every indication that it was a pre-arranged “counter-procession,” intended to demonstrate the opposite of the first.  Jesus times his entry to coincide with Pilate’s procession. He’s come down from Galilee, a hundred miles to the north, where he has been preaching among the people, mostly peasants, about the great passion of his life, “the Kingdom of God.” It’s important to know that in the time of Jesus, the phrase “Kingdom of God” was an explicitly political term. It referred to a social and economic order very different from what his hearers knew and experienced every day.  By the phrase, “Kingdom of God,” Jesus meant the opposite of the tyranny of earthly kings and empires. He was holding up a vision, like the Hebrew prophets before him, of a realm of justice, prosperity, and security for everyone. Meaning the opposite of the central dynamic of empire: which is political and economic domination of the many by a few. As the late Marcus Borg puts it, the term Kingdom of God signifies “what life would be like on earth if God were king, and the rulers of this world were not.”ii  So Jesus stages his counter-procession. Our text says, “When they were approaching Jerusalem…near the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples and said to them, ‘Go into the village ahead of you, and as you enter it, you will find tied there a colt that has never been ridden; untie it and bring it. If anyone says to you, ‘Why are you doing this?’ just tell them, ‘The Lord needs it…’”  These would be very strange instructions if we did not know, as Jesus’ hearers certainly knew, that he was quoting from Zechariah, Chapter 9. There is more to that passage than a description of Jesus’ preferred mode of transportation. The prophet Zechariah is speaking to the nation. He is reassuring the Hebrews that God has not forgotten them:   But I will defend my house against marauding forces. Never again will an oppressor overrun my people, for now I am keeping watch. Rejoice greatly, O Daughter of Zion! Shout, Daughter of Jerusalem! See, your king comes to you, righteous and having salvation, gentle and riding on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey. I will take away the chariots from Ephraim and the war-horses from Jerusalem, and the battle bow will be broken. He will proclaim peace to the nations. His rule will extend from sea to sea, and…to the ends of the earth.  In other words, Jesus is quoting from the prophet Zechariah, and reminding his listeners of the entire passage. Its message is, “God will deliver the nation from the oppressor” ---which, in Jesus’ day, is Rome. But this king will come to them humbly, not on a steed of war, but on a slow-moving donkey. This king will banish war from the land—no more chariots, war-horses, or bows. Commanding peace to the nations, he will be a king of peace.  The procession begins as Jesus and his group crest a hill called the Mount of Olives, two hundred feet above the Temple compound of Jerusalem. The road snakes down the hill, through the olive groves and into the Eastern Gate of the city. Crowds begin to gather. Unlike the silent, sullen watchers of Pilate’s procession, they lay coats and palm branches across the path---the only thing they have with which to express honor, acclaim, and rising hope.  Cheers ring out: “Hosanna!” which comes from Psalm 118 and was used at the festival of Passover, meaning, “Save now!” “Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord!” Others shout, “Hosanna in the highest heaven!” How fitting that these words, echoing the angel’s song at Jesus’ birth, should also herald the beginning of his last week. Can you see how this dramatic action sets up a kind of street theater, in which the contrasts are made clear? Pilate and his military enforcers represent one kind of kingdom. Jesus and his followers, in their peaceful demonstration, represent another. Pilate and his troops exist to serve a wealthy elite. Jesus and his disciples come as the humble servants of all. Pilate asserts the might of the world’s Superpower, which tolerates no opposition. Jesus embodies the shalom---the peace and well-being of all people ---that God desires.  On this first day of the last week of Jesus’ life, a contrast between kings and kingdoms is on display. The two processions could not be more different. And those who watch will make a choice. I wonder: if we had been there on that day in Jerusalem, which procession would we have chosen to follow?  Our own Lenten journey now begins with this question. Will we give ourselves to “the way things are in this world,” or “the way God intends them to be”? Will we place our trust in the power to inspire fear, or the power of vulnerable love? Two visions, two kingdoms, two processions. Which procession are we in right now? Which procession do we want to be in?  What will we choose?  Amen. i Marcus J.Borg & John Dominic Crossan, The Last Week: The Day-by-Day Account of Jesus’ Final Week in Jerusalem (San Francisco: HarperCollins, 2006) For reading in tandem with this sermon, see Chapter 1. ii Marcus Borg, The Heart of Christianity: Rediscovering A Life of Faith (San Francisco: HarperCollins, 2003) p. 132 