“Trouble in the Temple” 2nd Sunday in Lent at EUMC 3-1-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Jeremiah 7:5-11 & Mark 11:15-19  Last Sunday, you may remember, we looked at the first day of the last week of Jesus’ life. On that day, now known as Palm Sunday, Jesus and his disciples enacted a deliberate lampoon of Pilate and his soldiers. As the Romans paraded into Jerusalem in a grim display of military strength, Jesus and his disciples created a kind of street theater, hailed by the crowds, in fulfillment of the ancient prophecy of Zechariah:  See, your king comes to you, righteous and having salvation, gentle and riding on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey.  As provocative as that action was, it pales in comparison to what Jesus does on the second day. We might consider it a continuation of his entry into Jerusalem, a further expression of the same protest. In fact, last week’s text ends by telling us that after entering Jerusalem on a donkey, Jesus went to the Temple and “looked around”---the Greek word means “assessed,” as in a kind of reconnaissance. But then he withdrew to the village of Bethany “because the hour was late.” We wonder: what was the hour too late for?  The suspense is soon resolved. The following day, on Monday of Holy Week, Jesus returns to the Temple. And what comes next is a vivid description of a scene so important that it is one of a handful of events in Jesus’ life that is recorded in all four gospels. It also appears in three other independent sources, so we can be confident in the historicity of this scene.  Jesus and his disciples had staged their first action at the entrance to the Holy City; they stage the second at the entrance to the Holy Temple. They come into the Temple’s outer courtyard, called the Court of the Gentiles. This was a public space used for a number of things, both religious and practical. During this busy festival week, it would have been crowded with pilgrims and visitors, buyers and sellers, both Gentiles and Jews.  The courtyard was where Jewish pilgrims to Jerusalem could purchase salt, incense, wine and oil, as well as unblemished animals for sacrifice in the Temple: oxen, sheep, goats, pigeons, and doves. There were also stalls that offered other items for their convenience, and the tables of the money changers---not unlike the currency exchange places in our international airports today. In the Temple courtyard, the pilgrims who had streamed into the city for the celebration of Passover could obtain goods needed for worship and exchange their currency for the coinage needed to pay the Temple fees.  Suddenly, amidst the already bustling activity of this crowded courtyard, chaos erupts. Jesus and his friends are overturning the tables of the merchants and the money changers! They are releasing the goats and cattle, breaking open the cages of pigeons and doves. Coins are flying, sheep bleating, vendors shouting and scrambling after their money and merchandise. Startled pilgrims are stumbling over the scattered detritus. A stampede of frightened animals, chased by their owners, rushes out of the Temple gates and into the choked streets of Jerusalem.  And now Jesus and his disciples block the entrance to the courtyard, forbidding anyone carrying goods for sale or trade from entering the Temple. It’s a kind of barricade, a guerilla ban on further business for the day. As you would expect, Roman guards and heavily armed Temple police immediately rush into the courtyard, looking for whoever is responsible for this mayhem. And there stands Jesus, breathing hard. “My house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations,” he says, “but you have made it a den of robbers.”  What is going on here? It is obviously another pre-planned demonstration of prophetic criticism. But what exactly are Jesus and his disciples protesting?  This biblical scene is sometimes referred to as “the cleansing of the Temple,” but that’s a misnomer, really. We might imagine, for instance, that they are protesting the sacrifice of innocent animals in the Temple---which does strike me as pretty repugnant. But blood sacrifice was common in the ancient world, intended as the offering of a sacred meal and a gift to God. It was also commanded in the Torah. There is no indication here or anywhere else that Jesus categorically rejected it.  We might similarly imagine that Jesus is denouncing Judaism as a religion, or priesthood as an institution, or commercial activity on the Temple grounds. But no. Jesus was a devout Jew all his life. He never questioned the legitimacy of priesthood. And the buying and selling going on in the area outside the worship space was entirely normal and practical, as unobjectionable as Girl Scouts selling cookies in the Wesley Room during coffee hour. Nobody in the courtyard was stealing or defrauding anyone, or contaminating the sacred precincts of the Temple.  So what is Jesus demonstrating against? Last week we saw that the key to understanding his entry into Jerusalem riding on a donkey is found in the ancient prophecy of Zechariah, which Jesus was intentionally enacting for the crowds. In the same way, his overturning the tables in the Temple courtyard now invokes the words of the Hebrew prophets Isaiah and Jeremiah. He quotes them outright when confronted by the Roman soldiers and Temple guards: “My house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations…but you have made it a den of robbers.”  What is at stake here is the integrity of the Temple itself, and its faithfulness to God.  On the one hand, the Temple in Jerusalem was the center of Jewish worship and devotion. While Jews believed that God was everywhere, the Temple was the holiest of all holy places, the house in which God dwelled as in no other. When they worshipped in the Temple, they stood in the real presence of God. And they knew themselves to be purified, forgiven, and blessed.  There’s no question that in the 1st Century, Jews from all over the Mediterranean world looked to the Jerusalem Temple with affection and pride. They supported it through taxation---an annual amount from every Jewish male over a certain age---and through pilgrimage, especially for religious celebrations like Passover. The prophet Isaiah had called the Temple “a house of prayer for all nations” because it was the place from which God’s Light was meant to shine on all nations, illuminating the pathway to justice and peace.  On the other hand, in the time of Jesus, the Temple had also become the center through which Rome administered its rule. In every place throughout the Empire, Rome governed through local intermediaries, usually the wealthy aristocracy that was already in place. In Judea, Rome assigned this task to the Temple authorities, who are referred to in Mark’s gospel as “the chief priest, the elders, and the scribes.”  While Jewish law called for the succession of priests through certain families and for life, these Temple priests were now appointed by Rome, richly rewarded, and replaced frequently. They were given a relatively free hand over their subjects, as long as they made sure that the annual tribute to Rome was collected and paid---an enormous burden on the mostly peasant population, amounting to 20% of all production. This required the seizing of ancestral lands and the imposition of huge debts, the records of which were stored…in the Temple. At the same time, the Temple authorities were also supposed to maintain domestic peace and order.  It was a difficult task, and a delicate balancing act. The Temple authorities needed to collaborate enough with Rome to keep Rome happy, but not so much as to anger their Jewish subjects. But how could they be loyal to both Rome and their own people? As scholars Borg and Crossan put it, “There was a terrible ambiguity in that the priest who represented the Jews before God on the Day of Atonement also represented them before Rome the rest of the year.”i  And was this Temple the House of Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, or the House of Jupiter? The Temple priests walked a fine line, trying to hold them both together, preaching that Yahweh must have ordained the current social and political order. But when the symbol of the Empire, a golden eagle, was placed by the Romans atop one of Temple gates, and Jewish students tore it off because it was contrary to their sacred laws, they were summarily executed. Rome did not tolerate rival gods.  Enter Jesus, who knows that the Temple has become compromised beyond recognition. He turns over the tables of the money-changers, drives out the buyers and sellers, releases the animals being held for sacrifice. He and his disciples block the entrance to the Temple, symbolically---if not actually---shutting down its operations. When the police come for him, Jesus underscores his action by quoting the Hebrew prophet Isaiah: “My house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations.” To which he adds a line from the prophet Jeremiah: “but you have made it a den of robbers.”  Notice that a “den of robbers” is not usually a place where robbery is going on. It’s the hideout, the refuge, to which robbers flee for safety when the spoils have been taken elsewhere. The Temple authorities are not to imagine that the practice of worship gives them a cover for their crimes, a safe haven from divine justice. Listen to the rest of the passage in Jeremiah, from which Jesus is quoting:  Only, God says, “if you amend your ways and your doings, if you truly act justly one with another, if you do not oppress the alien, the orphan, and the widow,” will God continue to dwell with you in the Temple. Otherwise, warns God, “I will do to the house that is called by my name, in which you trust, and to the place that I gave to you and your ancestors, just what I did to Shiloh.” In other words, the great temple in Jerusalem will be destroyed, just as was the older i Marcus J. Borg & John Dominic Crossan, The Last Week: The Day-by-Day Account of Jesus’ Final Week in Jerusalem (San Francisco: HarperCollins, 2006) p. 41. For reading in tandem with this sermon, see Chapter 2. shrine. And in fact, Mark is writing this gospel forty years after the life of Jesus, around the year 70, when the temple in Jerusalem is destroyed, torn down by Roman legions.  It’s a sober warning. What does all this mean for us, Christians living within another Empire, in a later age? Here are a few questions for us to consider:  What happens when a temple, or a church, becomes so culturally captive that there is no longer any recognizable difference between it and the structures of power in its surrounding society? When, as Jesus puts it, “the salt has lost its taste,” its power to transform?  What happens to pastors who become so afraid of offending one or another constituency, and so fearful that someone will get mad and take their money and leave, that we avoid anything that might be controversial and tone down the gospel’s critique of all societies and all empires?  Is the Kingdom of God our driving passion, as it was for Jesus? Is God’s demand for political, economic and social justice at the top of our list of religious concerns? Or are we looking to worship to be our safe haven from such demands?  When we go to a regional gathering of United Methodists, and everything that happens there is about our own institutional survival, programs and pressures for church growth and material success at all cost, have we forgotten our reason for being? Should our institution survive?  If our church here in Edmonds burned down tomorrow, who would miss us? Would it be those who are hungry, lonely, outcast, grieving, sick, or poor? Oh, I hope so.  What is at stake here---no less than it was for the Jerusalem Temple in the time of Jesus--- is our integrity as a church, and our faithfulness to God.  Amen.         