“The Need for a Traitor” 4th Sunday in Lent at EUMC 3-15-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Zech. 11:12-14 & Mark 14:1-2, 10-11, 43-45  As we continue our Lenten journey through the last week of Jesus’ life, today we come to the Wednesday of that Holy Week.  On Sunday, you remember, Jesus rode into Jerusalem on a donkey in a parody of the military parade that Pilate was leading on the other side of the city. It was a kind of street theater protesting the Roman Empire’s domination of the Hebrew people, enforced by violence.  On Monday, Jesus and his disciples staged another demonstration, overturning the tables of the moneychangers and blocking an entrance to the Jerusalem temple. This was an extension of the first protest, aimed now at the local religious authorities and their collaboration with Rome.  On Tuesday, as our guest preacher pointed out last week, Jesus verbally sparred with those local religious authorities, who are referred to in Mark’s gospel as “the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes.” He accused them of corruption and warned of the coming destruction of the temple.  Each day in Holy Week has brought intensifying conflict between Jesus and the reigning powers in his society: the Roman Empire with its army of occupation, and the local religious authorities who administer---and profit from---Roman rule. Now we come to Wednesday, and the plot takes a turn. As Mark tells us, “Then Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went to the chief priests in order to betray [Jesus] to them.”  Who was this Judas? We actually have only scant information about him, especially in Mark’s gospel, which was the earliest of the four gospels and so closest to these events. We know that Judas was the son of Simon Iscariot, and that he was one of the original twelve disciples of Jesus. We know that he was a disciple in good standing during most of Jesus’ ministry, apparently trusted enough by the others to be appointed treasurer of the group.  Mark now tells us that Judas offers his services to the local authorities in Jerusalem, and strikes a deal. On Thursday of Holy Week, during the Passover meal, Jesus will declare that one of his friends will betray him. Later that night, in the Garden of Gethsemane, Judas will appear and kiss Jesus on the cheek as a way of identifying him to the temple police, who arrest Jesus and take him away.  And that’s the last we hear about Judas in Mark’s gospel, although his absence is conspicuous when, a few chapters later, Mark relates that the resurrected Jesus appeared to “the eleven” disciples, not twelve. Later gospels add additional details, casting Judas in a more and more negative light as time goes on. John, for instance, claims that Judas was a thief who stole from the disciples’ common purse. Matthew tells us that after betraying Jesus, Judas was filled with remorse, went away, and hanged himself from a tree.  Through the subsequent two thousand years of Christian history, Judas has been vilified as the obvious villain of the gospel story, the tool of the devil, even the personification of evil. The very term “Judas” has entered many languages, including English, as a synonym for “traitor.” Philosophers and theologians have argued about Judas: didn’t he have to do what he did in order for God’s plan to unfold? Was he predestined, then, to betray Jesus? Or did he make the choice himself?  In recent centuries, it has become popular to speculate about Judas’ motives for the betrayal. Perhaps, it is said, he had become disillusioned. He’d expected Jesus to lead a different kind of revolution against Rome, and he couldn’t understand why Jesus was now talking about suffering and death. Or perhaps Judas had become convinced that nonviolent resistance wouldn’t work, and was foolish. Or perhaps he expected that Jesus would be arrested, and hoped to save himself. Most recently it’s been suggested that Judas must have loved Jesus more deeply than the other disciples did, and so his dashed dreams were particularly intense. He acted out of anger and pain.  But we don’t really know what was going on with Judas. We don’t know the complexities of his life and personality, or why he did what he did. And Mark, the first gospel writer, has little interest in such things (let alone in theological arguments about things like predestination). Mark gives us only the barest facts about Judas, who is just one of the characters in his story. What Mark is focused on is the big picture here, the whole unfolding drama of Holy Week.  So let’s back up and look at this text again. Mark tells us that : “The chief priests and the scribes were looking for a way to arrest Jesus by stealth and kill him…Then Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went to the chief priests in order to betray [Jesus] to them. When they heard it, they were greatly pleased, and promised to give him money.” (Notice that Mark doesn’t say that Judas did it for money, just that they promised him some.)  Here’s a question: why do the chief priests need Judas? Jesus has already done plenty of things warranting arrest and execution: he has publicly challenged the Roman Empire and its local administrators. Rome had certainly executed people for less, as we have seen. And Jesus doesn’t have rights to anything like what we would call “due process,” the rights that a Roman citizen would have. If he’s making trouble for the authorities, why don’t they just pick him up and get rid of him?  Jesus poses this same question when the soldiers come for him in Gethsemane: “Have you come out with swords and clubs to arrest me as though I were a bandit? Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not arrest me.” Why was it necessary to arrest Jesus with the help of a traitor among his followers?  Go back to Sunday, when Jesus entered Jerusalem on a donkey, hailed by an enthusiastic crowd. Then Monday, when he called the temple a “den of robbers” and Mark says, “When the chief priests and scribes heard it, they kept looking for a way to kill him, because the whole crowd was spellbound by his teaching.” And again Tuesday, when Jesus bested and embarrassed the priests in public debate, and Mark tells us that a “large crowd was listening to him with delight.”  The chief priests and scribes, who have been assigned the task of administering Roman oppression while also maintaining domestic peace, are afraid of the crowds! They don’t want an uprising on their hands. Mark says: “The chief priests and the scribes were looking for a way to arrest Jesus by stealth and kill him; for they said, ‘Not during the festival, or there may be a riot among the people.’” They don’t want a riot, or the predictable Roman response to riots. And they surely don’t want either the excitable crowds or the Roman soldiers turning on them.  It’s too risky, they decide. So they won’t arrest Jesus. And then, on Wednesday: Judas appears. And he offers to do their dirty work for them! He’ll take armed guards to where Jesus is and identify him, in a place away from the crowds and under cover of night. As Mark tells us, the chief priests and scribes are “greatly pleased”! They offer to reward Judas with thirty pieces of silver. Because now they can dispose of Jesus. And now, in Judas Iscariot, the crowds will have someone else to blame.  Blame is such a seductive thing, isn’t it? And so powerful! When we are the ones doing the blaming, there is this wonderful, cleansing discharge of anger and emotion. And if we are guilty or implicated in any way, if we can get the crowds to blame someone else, that gets us out of the line of fire. Safely asleep in our beds while Judas leads the guards to Gethsemane, we can take comfort in the thought that someone else is clearly more worthy of blame than we are. With a little effort, we might even convince ourselves that we are, in fact, blameless.  It is so easy to allow blame to be fixed on one obvious evildoer, while deflecting attention away from ourselves. Take ISIS, for instance, an obvious evil in our time. ISIS is a Judas to the whole world community. And its cruelties can seem incomprehensible to us. Those people are nothing like us in the civilized world, we think, and we are nothing like them. But that kind of purifying, self-righteous anger burns on both sides.  What if, like Mark, we were to resist the temptation to demonize one party, back up, and look at the bigger picture? What if we were to dare ask, for instance: why does a segment of the world’s population---mostly recruited from among the most marginalized, impoverished, and desperate sectors---regard Western Civilization as the Evil Empire? Refusing to see any way at all in which we might be participating in creating conditions that breed extremism, we may feel safe from accusation, but also helpless to do anything about the situation. We just want our enemies to be eliminated. They want the same thing. And the violence continues.  This week in the news we saw those Oklahoma University students chanting racial slurs. It’s tempting, isn’t it, to blame those young people and call for them to be punished, without ever asking questions like: from whom did they get such ideas, and in what context could they come to imagine that such behavior is acceptable? Racism, classism, sexism, heterosexism---none of these exists in a vacuum. If we can’t bear to consider what may be our part in condoning or perpetuating social evil, we can’t then choose to modify our attitudes and actions, and so participate in social change.  Closest to home, perhaps, is the temptation to focus on assigning blame in our personal relationships. A relationship falls apart: let’s say our marriage ends in divorce. How “pleased” we are, like those chief priests and scribes, if we can point to our former spouse as the Judas who did something public and reprehensible. Maybe they had an affair, or an addiction, or maybe they were abusive---and so we allow or even encourage family and friends to condemn them. Not just to hold them accountable for their behavior, which is appropriate, but to shade over into wholesale blaming and shaming.  We may sit in the office of a marriage counselor and volley accusations back and forth, like balls in a tennis match: you’re at fault, not me, you’re at fault, not me. Preoccupation with blame---and trying to avoid being blamed---is a ruthless game! The thing is: if we can’t, at some point, rise above the tennis court and consider the whole game---if we can’t allow ourselves to consider how we have participated in this relationship, consciously or unconsciously---we are likely to replicate its same dynamics in our next relationship.  That is to say: without what Christianity traditionally has called confession and repentance, we can’t learn from our mistakes, change the one person we can change, and choose to do things differently in the future.  In his telling of the last week of Jesus’ life, Mark wants us to look at the big picture, without undue focus on Judas as the bad guy in this story. Fixating on blame and shame doesn’t lead to anything good. It leads to a dead end in which violence is often intensified and the possibility for new life is ruled out. Look at where being consumed with self-blame, perhaps the most toxic blame of all, gets Judas in the end.  Here is where I notice that in the telling of this tale, this gospel writer doesn’t vilify any one party. In fact, he emphasizes the interweaving of our lives when he repeatedly refers to Judas as “Judas-one-of-the-twelve,” “Judas-one-of-the-twelve,” almost like a title. Mark is reminding us that we are in this life together, and all of us contribute to the systems and relationships of which we are a part. Judas may be the most obvious traitor in the gospels, but before this story is over, every one of the twelve disciples will have betrayed Jesus.  So back up even further, considering the whole gospel, which is about multiple human failings, yes, but even more about the faithfulness of God. That whole tennis court, all the conflicts and machinations of that last week in Jesus’ life, this whole aching world, and all the faults and failures in your life and mine, are held within something even bigger: the compassionate love of God. As the story continues to unfold, Jesus will embody that life-giving love in the most breathtaking way. While dying on the cross, he won’t be blaming anyone: not the chief priests and scribes, not Judas and the other disciples, not even his own executioners. “Father, forgive them,” he says, “they know not what they do.”  Let’s call off the blame game. For sake of our own healing and the healing of the world, let’s resist the temptation to demonize anyone. With courage and humility and without despair, let us confess our own sins, that we might become more and more able to take responsibility for our lives, and less and less inclined to focus on the sins of others. Let us commend ourselves, our loved ones, our friends, and yes, our enemies, to the greater mercy of God.  Amen.    