“A Last Supper and Gethsemane” 5th Sunday in Lent 3-22-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James at EUMC text: Mark 14:12-52  It is now Thursday of the last week of Jesus’ life. The events leading up to his impending arrest have taken place: his highly visible entrance into Jerusalem, his overturning of the tables in the temple, and his verbal sparring with the local religious authorities. Those authorities now have him targeted. And Judas is just waiting for an opportunity to betray him.  Jesus is fully conscious of the inflammatory nature of his activities. He knows the precariousness of his situation. The disciples feel it, too. As we come to the fifth day of this Holy Week, the narrative of Mark’s gospel is heavy with a sense of gathering gloom.  Thursday is the beginning of Passover, and our text opens with the disciples asking Jesus, “Where do you want us to go and make preparations for the Passover meal?” In an echo of Palm Sunday, Jesus sends two of them ahead to secure what is needed, saying: “Go into the city, where a man carrying a jar of water will meet you; follow him, and wherever he enters, say to the owner of the house, ‘The Teacher asks, Where is my guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?’ He will show you a large room upstairs, furnished and ready. Make preparations for us there.”  Those preparations would have included buying a lamb in the temple courts, having it killed and its blood poured out on the altar as a sacrifice to God. Then the lamb would be roasted---there were ovens set up all around the temple grounds for this purpose---and brought back to the borrowed house in which Jesus and the disciples would eat the Passover meal.  We are reminded of two things in these preparations. One is the need for secrecy: Jesus sends two disciples to make these arrangements, thus withholding from Judas the precise location of the house. Now Judas can’t tell the authorities where to find Jesus during the meal. Secondly, we are reminded once again that Jesus and his disciples were poor. They have no home, and little money. They must rely on the hospitality of strangers even for this Last Supper.  As they enter the upper room, there is a pitcher and bowl beside the door, but no servant on hand---as there would be in a more affluent home---to wash the disciples’ feet. Normal practice was to enter a room, remove your sandals, and have a servant kneel at your feet and rinse off the dust and grime. It was impolite to come to the table wearing shoes. In the gospel of John, which offers a much longer account of Holy Thursday, none of the disciples wants to take on the role of a servant and carry out this menial task. But Jesus takes the pitcher and basin, kneels, and starts in. It is a humbling, mortifying, teaching moment.  As we’ve seen, however, Mark is the shortest as well as the earliest of the four gospels. Without any mention of foot-washing, Mark cuts straight to the meal at the table. Now, when we imagine this scene, we are likely to picture something like da Vinci’s famous painting of the Last Supper. But in the time of Jesus, a formal meal was not eaten at a dining table with chairs. It was eaten at a u-shaped table, low to the ground, called a triclinium, around which diners were seated on cushions. And the head of the table was not at the center of the U, as we might expect, but on the left leg of the U, where the host of meal would sit, with just enough room for one honored guest to sit at his right, and one on his left.  So picture this: Jesus is now seated on that short left leg of the U. Like all the disciples, he has his legs turned to the side and his feet behind him, so that he leans his weight on his left hand. His right hand is thus freed for eating with. There are no utensils; the meal would be eaten with pieces of bread, dipped into a common dish.  Mark tells us, “And when they had taken their places and were eating, Jesus said, ‘I tell you, one of you will betray me, one who is…dipping bread into the bowl with me.’” Stricken, the disciples say to him, one after another, “Surely, not I?” We, the readers, know that it’s Judas, who is sitting---ironically---just to the left of Jesus, in a place of honor. But the disciples don’t know who the betrayer is. They look around at each other in mounting distress and distrust.  It is at this tense moment that Jesus enacts a gesture that will become symbolic of the entirety of his teaching, and will be ritually re-enacted by his followers for all generations to come. It’s a gesture both simple and utterly profound. He reaches out for the bread on the table, offers the traditional prayer of blessing, but then he departs from the ritual of the Passover meal. Or more accurately, he adds another layer of meaning to it. He breaks the bread, and holds it out to his friends, saying, “Take, eat; this is my body, given for you.”  Then he takes a cup, and after giving thanks, he offers it to them. In a Passover meal, the ritual words would be said, after which each participant would sip from his own cup. Instead, Jesus now has his disciples share in one cup, passing it from hand to hand. “This is my blood,” he tells them, “which is poured out for many. Truly I tell you, I will never again drink of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.”  What is Jesus doing here? The interpretive key of this gesture is at the end of his sentence, when he speaks of the “kingdom of God.” Remember that this phrase is a shorthand term, as Marcus Borg puts it, for “what life would be like on earth if God were king, and the rulers of this world were not.” The kingdom of God means this world as God intends it to be: people living in peace with one another, and in harmony with all creation.  The kingdom of God was the great passion of Jesus’ life. Everything he did was to teach and demonstrate its qualities, and to invite others to join him in living it into being. For whenever people love and serve one another, the kingdom of God is already here in part. One day it will come in all its fullness, when human beings finally get it, and God’s will is done on earth as it is in heaven. Life on this planet will flourish! Children will grow up safe and free; the lion will lie down with the lamb; there will be no suffering or sorrow any more.  What Jesus is doing now in the upper room encapsulates his teachings about the kingdom of God. Like all enduring rituals, it has multiple layers of meaning. At the most primal level, it has the meanings that humans have always associated with shared meals. Nourishment, sustenance, abundance. The gathering of family and clan, sharing not only food but life together. Hospitality extended to friends, strangers, and even enemies: for the end of hostility is signaled when weapons are set aside and people sit down to eat a common meal. For three years now, Jesus has been telling stories and parables in which meals exemplify life in the kingdom of God. He’s told of a high holy party thrown by a joyful father upon the return of a prodigal son. He’s talked about a wedding banquet to which everyone---including the poor, brought in from the streets in their ragged clothes---is invited.  In his society, there were strict rules about who could eat with whom. Jesus demonstrated life in the kingdom of God by breaking those rules. He would eat, laugh and drink wine with anyone, including those viewed by his society as “undesirable” and unclean. He ate with prostitutes, with people of other religions, even with Jews who betrayed their own people by collecting taxes for Rome! Theologians point out that an analogy close to our own time would be a religious leader in the American South prior to the civil rights movement holding public integrated meals and declaring, “This is the kingdom of God---and the divided world that you see around you is not.”i  In this meal in the upper room there is also the echo of Jesus’ feeding the multitudes. Recall that he didn’t conjure up loaves and fishes out of thin air, but asked the disciples to start with what they had, and distribute it to the crowd. In case we should miss it, the same four actions are repeated now, and the same verbs are used: Jesus takes the bread, blesses it, breaks it, and gives it to his disciples. We can’t miss the implication that life in God’s kingdom includes gratitude, generosity, and justice: the fair distribution of what is needed to sustain life.  And again, this is a Passover meal, which is already rich in meaning. In the Passover meal, Jews told and retold the central story of their faith, the holy story of how God had liberated them from slavery and oppression. This story defined and constituted them as a people. In the Passover meal, in the time of Jesus and today, symbolic foods are eaten to bring the past into the present, and the story is remembered in such a way as to make it one’s own. When Jews eat the Passover meal, they are saying: this is what God has done not only for our ancestors but for us, and this is who we are. We are the people of God, liberated that we might live in such a way as to demonstrate God’s good purposes for the world.  In the upper room, Jesus doesn’t erase that story or that identity, but he does a radical thing. He adds yet another layer of meaning for his disciples when he says, over the unleavened Passover bread, “This is my body, given for you.” And over the wine, “This is my lifeblood, poured out for you.” Suddenly, the sense of impending tragedy that has hovered over this meal is brought fully forward. Jesus is speaking of what they are all silently anticipating with fear and dread.  Because his teachings and actions run counter to what is normal in the Roman Empire, Jesus is rightly viewed by the authorities as subversive to the prevailing order, although wrongly accused of planning to overthrow it by armed rebellion. Because of his emphasis on all the themes in this holy meal---including breaking down the dividing walls between insiders and outsiders, and eliminating a social order in which a few people at the top dominate a whole lot of people at the bottom---his life is going to be violently taken from him.  So Jesus departs from the Passover ritual by having his disciples all share in one communal cup. Earlier James and John had asked him for seats of honor in his coming kingdom, and Jesus had asked, “Are you able to drink the cup that I drink?” That is to say, are you able to commit your lives fully to the kingdom of God, and pour yourselves out in loving service?  The verbs used by Mark reveal that the ritual of this meal will take place literally in Jesus’ body, and must be internalized in all who would follow him and belong to his community. If we are to be his people, we too must: take the cup (take hold of our lives); give thanks (give thanks with our lives); and pour ourselves out (sharing our lives and resources, and devoting ourselves to the well-being of all people and all creation). This is the new covenant proclaimed, prayed, offered to God, and made holy.  But reality is revealed in this ritual. This is a demanding, costly way of life. Do the disciples who have drunk of this one cup understand what they are being initiated into? Probably not. But the early Christians for whom Mark is writing this gospel, who are experiencing violent persecution at the hands of the Roman Empire in the year 70, definitely do.  Which leads to one other layer of meaning in this meal. Jesus looks around the table, and sees that his disciples are confused and afraid, and already dazed by anticipatory grief. And he knows that they will soon desert him. When the soldiers come, every one of them will run away. But Jesus forgives them. It’s not even a question. He loves them. He wants only to give them solace and strength.  And so he gives them the gift of this ritual with the promise that whenever they repeat it, he will be with them. This meal in the upper room is for disciples who fall short, who don’t quite know who Jesus is for them, who aren’t sure they can follow him, who will try and fail multiple times. This meal is for us.  The dinner comes to an end. The oil lamps are extinguished. The disciples rise to their feet and follow Jesus down the stairs of the house. They walk in silence down the hill through the Kidron Valley, past its ancient tombs. It is midnight. They walk toward a place at the base of the Mount of Olives, a place where the leaves on the olive trees glimmer, like silver coins, in the moonlight.  A place called Gethsemane.  Amen.       i Marcus J.Borg & John Dominic Crossan, The Last Week: The Day-by-Day Account of Jesus’ Final Week in Jerusalem (San Francisco: HarperCollins, 2006) p. 114  