“Who Killed Jesus?” Palm/Passion Sunday at EUMC 4-29-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Isaiah 53:1-5 & Mark 15:1-15  For five Sundays, we have been following the unfolding events of the last week of Jesus’ life. The week began with his vivid entrance into Jerusalem riding on a donkey, on what we celebrate today as Palm Sunday.  On Monday, Jesus and his disciples overturned the tables of the moneychangers in the Temple. As we have seen, the actions of both Sunday and Monday were forms of protest against the violence of the Roman Empire, and against the local religious authorities who collaborated with Rome in oppressing the Hebrew people.  On Tuesday, Jesus debated with those authorities, known in Mark’s gospel as “the chief priests and scribes.” On Wednesday, Judas offered to deliver Jesus into their hands. Thursday brought a series of events: the Last Supper, the prayer in Gethsemane, the Judas kiss, the arrest of Jesus, the disciples running away. Throughout the night Jesus was interrogated by a privy council of the chief priests and scribes. He was charged with blasphemy, for which the penalty under Jewish law was death.  But under Roman law, the priests and scribes had no authority to execute prisoners. So when dawn breaks on Friday morning, Jesus is brought to the Roman governor, Pontius Pilate. The chief priests, scribes, and a crowd of their supporters loudly call for Jesus to be executed. Pilate has no interest in their charge of religious blasphemy, but he does pay attention when Jesus is accused of stirring up rebellion against Roman rule.  Pilate then offers the crowd a choice: either Jesus or Barabbas, another political prisoner, will be set free as a kind of gift on this Jewish festival of Passover. The crowd calls for Barabbas to go free. Hence Jesus is sentenced to death, and handed over to Roman soldiers to be crucified.  Crucifixion was a particularly gruesome form of execution, reserved for the punishment of political crimes: treason, rebellion, and sedition. It was intended to be not only retribution but a public warning, a deterrent to others who might want to plot against the Roman Empire. For that reason crucifixions began with public humiliation and torture. Jesus is subjected to nakedness, spitting, and taunting, as well as beating and flogging.  He is then forced to carry the instrument of his own execution through the city streets. Because crucifixions were meant to terrify the population, they were carried out in very visible places: at crossroads, in theaters, or on high ground. The political prisoner, already weak from torture, was nailed to a cross, hoisted up for public view, and left to die. The corpse was almost always left where it hung, to be eaten by dogs or picked clean by birds of prey. The bones would then be thrown onto a heap of trash, which is how the place of Jesus’ crucifixion got its name: Golgotha, which means “the place of skulls.”  Jesus dies in this horrific way. His suffering and death are known as his “passion.” Hence Palm Sunday is also called Passion Sunday. All of which raises an important question. Who was responsible for this terrible turn of events? Who killed Jesus? The chief priests and scribes had a hand in it. These were the local leaders assigned the task of administering Roman rule. They were to keep money flowing through the Temple to their Roman overlords while also maintaining domestic peace. The concern of these leaders is fairly stated in the gospel of John: “If we let [Jesus] go on like this, everyone will believe him, and the Romans will come and destroy both our holy place and our nation.”i Caiaphas, the high priest, offers the practical argument that it is better to let one man die than that the whole nation perish.ii  But we have to be careful in asserting that these Jewish authorities were partly responsible for the death of Jesus. Yes, they turned him over to Pilate, and employed a crowd to call for his execution. But it would be false to make a blanket statement that “the Jews” killed Jesus. Jesus was a Jew! His mother was a Jew, as were his disciples, and the women who stayed with him to the end. Nicodemus, who spoke up for him in his Jewish trial, and Joseph of Arimathea, who provided a tomb for his burial, were Jews. The crowds who hailed his entry into Jerusalem, and delighted in his challenge to the chief priests and elders, were Jewish crowds.  Subsequent centuries of Christian persecution of Jews, based on the charge that Jews are “Christ-killers,” means that we need to make this clear distinction. Hitler, as you may know, loved the famous Passion Play in Oberammergau, Germany, which emphasizes Jewish involvement in the death of Jesus. But it was not “the Jews” as a people who called for Jesus to be executed. It was their leaders at that time, who were appointed by Rome to serve the domination system of the Roman Empire.  And here we might pause for a word about this term, “domination system.” It’s a term used by biblical scholars---and I would refer you especially to Walter Brueggemann,iii probably the foremost Old Testament scholar of our time. Domination systems were developed about 5000 years ago, and were the most common form of social organization in the ancient world, including the empires of Egypt, Assyria, and Babylonia. Domination systems had five main characteristics:  First, they were politically oppressive. They were generally ruled by a monarchy or small aristocracy, and ordinary people had little or no say about how they were governed. Second, they were economically exploitative. A ruling elite structured the economic system so that 1% of the population would get roughly two-thirds of the society’s annual production.  A third characteristic of ancient domination systems is that they were profoundly patriarchal. A few men ruled over all other men, and over all women and children. Fourth: they were legitimated, or justified, with religious language. The people were told that those in power ruled by divine right, and that the social order reflected the will of God. And fifth: domination systems were expanded through wars, and enforced by violence and the threat of violence.  The prevailing domination system in the time of Jesus was the Roman Empire. Thus the chief priests and scribes brought Jesus to Pilate, the Roman governor. Pilate knew that Jesus was not a violent threat, or he would have rounded up and executed his closest followers. But Pilate also understood that Jesus was advocating for something he called the “kingdom of God,” in subversive opposition to the kingdom of Rome. So: he was to be eliminated. The reality is that Jesus was officially, legally, and publicly executed by Roman authority. Jewish leaders called for his death, but Jesus was sentenced by the Roman governor, tortured and killed by Roman soldiers, and died on a Roman cross.  But again, this is not to make a blanket statement that “the Romans” killed Jesus. It was a Roman centurion, in fact, who was first to acknowledge, “Truly, this was the Son of God!” Most Roman citizens knew that this sort of thing happened, but were not directly involved. And the ones who were involved in the crucifixion of Jesus probably thought that they were just doing their jobs.  It’s important for us to realize that the execution of Jesus was nothing unusual in ancient times. It was simply normal behavior on the part of domination systems. Moreover, as empires go, Rome was better than most. There is no reason to think that either the temple authorities or the Roman officials and soldiers were particularly wicked individuals.  This was just how domination systems responded to those who openly and vigorously challenged them. It was how things were done, how things had always been done. It has happened throughout history. One could make a good case that in somewhat different form, domination systems---and the lethal machinery that keeps them going---remain with us today.  In this sense, no one person was responsible for the execution of Jesus. And in the same sense, most everyone who participated in the prevailing domination system, or benefitted from it in any way, was responsible. Did you happen to see the recent Academy Award-winning movie, “Selma”? One of the scenes in that movie depicts Martin Luther King, Jr. speaking at the funeral of a young black man who was killed by white riot police. In that real-life eulogy, King asked, “Who killed Jimmy Lee Johnson?” Then he went on:  A State trooper pointed the gun, but he did not act alone. He was murdered by the brutality of every sheriff who practices lawlessness in the name of law. He was murdered by the irresponsibility of every politician, from governors on down, who has fed his constituents on prejudice and hatred. He was murdered by the timidity of a federal government that can spend millions of dollars a day to keep troops in South Vietnam and cannot protect the rights of its own citizens seeking the right to vote. He was murdered by the indifference of every white minister of the gospel who has remained silent behind the safe security of stained-glass windows. And he was murdered by the cowardice of every Negro who passively accepts the evils of segregation and stands on the sidelines in the struggle for justice.iv  King was making the point that there is a degree to which we all participate in and contribute to the systems of which we are part. Some more than others, especially those with more rather than less decision-making power. But in a real sense, everyone who was part of the domination system of the Roman Empire had a role in killing Jesus. The world killed Jesus. It continues to crucify Jesus today.  Perhaps you have seen Rembrandt’s famous painting of the crucifixion. When you look at that painting your eyes are first drawn to the cross on which Jesus is dying. Then your attention travels to the crowd gathered at the foot of the cross. And then, if you look closely, you see that there’s someone else standing in the shadow, off at the edge of the painting. It is Rembrandt himself. He’s painted himself into the scene.  Rembrandt was confessing that in own life, and in his own ways, he helped to crucify Jesus. He sided with those who opposed the kingdom of God because it threatened their personal and political interests. He joined the crowds who were fascinated by the spectacle of violence, and the Roman citizens who felt powerless to do anything but look the other way. He joined Judas in betraying Jesus, and Peter, who denied knowing him. He had participated in the suffering of innocents. Rembrandt’s painting invites us to contemplate how that might be true for us, as well.  Who killed Jesus? We all do. We still do. And how does God respond? Is God King of the ultimate Domination System? Is God like a Roman Emperor who demands obedience, and decrees suffering and death for all who oppose God’s will? Is God pleased, appeased, or satisfied by violence committed in God’s name? You might hear that some time, even in church. But don’t believe it. That kind of theology is an example of religion being used to legitimate and perpetuate our own human domination systems.  We Christians believe that Jesus was a person who was transparently one with God. In him we see what God is like. Jesus was passionately committed to witnessing to the Kingdom of God, the reign of justice and peace on earth, which is the opposite of a domination system. He would never abandon his mission. But neither would he would destroy his enemies by violence. He would seek to win our hearts in a different way.  A pastor named Steve Garnaas-Holmes has written a poem about this. Let me close by sharing it with you:  This is a story of love, not a deal, no scheme to save us with someone else's blood, no holy slaughter, no means, no demand. It's not God's choice that a savior suffer: that's ours alone. This is the story of our evil and God's invasion of love. The Gentle One comes among us, our certainty, our betrayal, our violence, and offers only love. He invites to dinner those who will deny him, offers the place of honor to the one who will betray him, offers us himself. To our self-absorption he offers his body; i John 11:48 ii John 11:50 iii See all of Brueggemann’s works, but especially The Prophetic Imagination (Philadelphia:Fortress Press, 1978) See also the works of Walter Wink, a leading writer on New Testament interpretation and who first coined the term “domination system.” See all of Wink’s books, but especially Naming the Powers (Philadelphia:Fortress Press, 1984) ivThis can be found in multiple places, including on-line at https://lcrm.lib.unc.edu/blog/index.php/2012/02/18/remembering-jimmie-lee-jackson/ v Thanks to United Methodist pastor Steve Garnaas-Holmes, who published this original poem---I believe it was sometime in the last year---in his on-line daily devotional service called Unfolding Light. to our sin he offers forgiveness. In the anguish and chaos he offers prayer. To our judgment and violence he offers healing. To our death he offers life. It is this simple: to our evil he offers love. It is not his suffering that saves, don't be fooled. It's his self-giving, his love, his forgiveness. Even in our worst sin, God will only love. God's will is simply to love. There is only love. This is what saves us. For our perfect rebellion, our total rejection, our deepest hate and violence, there is only love. There is only love.v  Amen.           