“Practicing Resurrection” a sermon for Easter Sunday at EUMC 4-5-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Deuteronomy 30:11-19 & Mark 16:1-8  For six Sundays, we’ve been following the story of the last week in Jesus’ life, as recorded in the gospel of Mark. Now this morning we come to Mark’s account of the resurrection. And I have to tell you: it’s strange!  For one thing, Mark’s version of what happened on Easter morning is incredibly short. You know how long he’s been telling us about the last week of Jesus’ life? For 253 verses. That’s five chapters, a third of the whole gospel. Now we come to his account of the resurrection, which presumably is the climax of the story, and we get only eight short verses.  And then, abruptly, the narrative stops. The women come to the tomb, find it empty, and they are told, “Do not be alarmed; you are looking for Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He has been raised; he is not here. Look, there is the place they laid him. But go, tell his disciples and Peter that he is going ahead of you to Galilee; there you will see him, just as he told you.’”  Mark says: “So they went out and fled from the tomb, for terror and amazement had seized them; and they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid.” And that’s it. That’s the end. In the original Greek of Mark’s gospel, this last line isn’t even a complete sentence! It breaks off in the middle of a phrase.  What kind of ending is this? It seems nonsensical: if the women ran away and never said anything to anyone, how did we get this story? But if you look in your Bible, you’ll find a footnote that says, “Earliest manuscripts end at verse 8.” That is, in the oldest manuscripts of the Bible that we have, Mark’s gospel ends---I won’t say “concludes” but ends---right here, with the women running away from the empty tomb.  It’s a strange ending. The fathers of the early church thought so, too. They said: Mark must have written a longer ending, but it’s now missing. We’re talking about papyrus scrolls, after all. The last chapter could have been torn off, or worn off. So they tacked on a summary of what the other three gospels say about the resurrection, because they thought that’s how Mark must have meant to tell this story.  In fact, they added two endings. The first brings Peter back into the story, closing with “Amen.” Later they added yet another, even longer ending. It puts Mary Magdalene back in the picture, along with the eleven disciples and the resurrected Jesus speaking to them at length, after which Jesus ascends to heaven and is seated at the right hand of God. Now there’s an ending! And they finished off that one, too with the word “Amen.”  But what I want us to consider this morning is that Mark did end his gospel at the eighth verse, with the women running away from the empty tomb. Assuming that the original ending is as intentional and finely crafted as the rest of his gospel, Mark is telling us something about Easter through this strange non-ending. So let’s look at it.  It’s Sunday, the first day of the week. The sun is just rising, casting its glow on the pinkish stones of Jerusalem. Three women---Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome---are walking along the road.  On Friday, they had watched Jesus, their beloved Teacher and friend, die. They’d followed as his body was taken down from the cross and carried to the cemetery. There had been no time for washing and anointing. The battered corpse was just wrapped in a cloth and hurriedly placed in a tomb, which was sealed with a stone. Nothing more could be done on the Sabbath, which went from sundown Friday til sundown Saturday. The women prepared the oils and spices that would be needed, and waited through the darkness of Saturday night.  On Sunday morning, as soon as it’s light enough to see, they leave the house with their bundles. As they walk, they wonder aloud: when they reach the tomb, how are they going to roll away the stone? It’s too heavy. They could have stayed away, given the apparent impossibility of the task. But no. As writer Joan Chittister says about the life of faith, it’s not a matter of doing great things, “it’s a matter of doing small things courageously.”i  Mark, the storyteller, brings us into the story. We see the fingers of dawn reaching through the olive trees. We hear the women talking. They approach the tomb and see that the stone has already been moved. Someone must have been there before them. Someone might be in there now! They enter the tomb cautiously. As their eyes adjust to the dark, they see a young man dressed in a white robe sitting beside the place where the body had been laid.  The man says to them: “You are looking for Jesus, the one who was crucified. He is risen. He is not here. See for yourself.” The women look and see that the body is gone. Where is it? Has someone taken it? They are already on that vulnerable edge, after the events of the past few days. The man---who is he? Has Mark, the gospel writer, written himself into this story?---continues. “Go, tell his disciples and Peter that he is gone before you to Galilee, and you will see him there.”  The women stare at him. What? What is he talking about? This is all too strange. They back out of the tomb, then turn and start running, “for terror and amazement had seized them, and they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid.” And this is where Mark ends his gospel. Only it doesn’t sound like an ending. The women run away from the disturbing young man, away from the shockingly empty tomb... and that’s it? But… what happens next?  We, the readers, know how stories are supposed to end. The conflict is resolved. The good guys win, the bad guys lose. Add an “Amen” and you’ve finished the story. Or it’s like a drama on TV. The story got bad there for awhile, even pretty tense there at the tomb, but with a few additions everything’s OK now. Jesus is in his heaven and all’s right with the world. Amen.  An ending gives you closure. You can close the book, or turn off the TV, and relax. You can believe the ending or not: it’s a good story either way. And it’s over. But Mark’s story doesn’t sound like it’s over. Have you heard of the principle of Ockham’s razor? It says that the answer to a puzzling question is usually the simplest. Maybe Mark’s gospel seems unfinished because…it is unfinished. Maybe Mark is telling us that the story of Easter isn’t over. Listen again to what the man in white says: “Go, tell his disciples and Peter that he is gone before you to Galilee, and you will see him there.” Go: not an intellectual proposition to be accepted, but an action to be taken. Tell his disciples: who? Is he talking about all who would be followers of Jesus? And Peter: oh, great. Mark has to put that in.  The last time we saw Peter in Mark’s gospel, he was trying to save himself by denying that he knew Jesus. Now Mark, the man of few words, could have just said “go and tell the disciples”---Peter was one of the disciples. But no, he singles him out by name. Peter: the one who loved Jesus so much, and failed him so miserably. And get this: the Greek conjunction here is kai, but kai can mean “and” or “even.” So this line can also be read as, “Go and tell the disciples, even Peter,” the one who needs to hear this most, “that Jesus is gone before you to Galilee.”  We know what Galilee signifies. Galilee was home to the disciples. They were all Galileans. Galilee was where Jesus first called them to follow him. It was where they had experienced the intensity of their first commitment, where their ministry began and flourished, before they came to Jerusalem and things fell apart. Is Mark saying that the work that was begun in Galilee isn’t, in fact, over? That there is still work to be done?  And then this: “there you will see him, just as he told you.” That is: Jesus isn’t here, in the place of the dead. Go home to your families and communities, and live as his disciples. Make his passion for the Kingdom of God your passion. Take up the work of loving God and neighbor as he taught and demonstrated. In the process of carrying on his ministry, you will discover that you are accompanied by a Living Presence. There you will see him, just as he told you.  I think of Albert Schweitzer, one of the heroes of the last century. You may remember that Schweitzer was a brilliant organist, philosopher, physician, and theologian. At some point he decided that he would pursue his own many interests until the age of thirty, after which he would repay the world something for all the happiness it had given to him. Taking Jesus as his model, he dedicated the rest of his life to serving humanity as a doctor in Africa.  Schweitzer writes about Jesus as an enigmatic figure who goes before us, leading us toward the fulfillment of life. But, Schweitzer said, he is always just out of our reach. We can’t grasp him. We can’t domesticate him. And we can’t just give intellectual assent to propositions about him. What is required is not belief, but participation. Jesus turns a corner, and we glimpse a flash of color, just the hem of his robe. All we can do is try to follow him, or not. But if we do, in that process---not beforehand, not in the abstract, but in that process---we come to know him. Albert Schweitzer wrote a book called The Quest for the Historical Jesus. It ends with these lines:  He comes to us as One unknown, without a name, as of old, by the lakeside, he came to those who knew Him not. He speaks to us the same words: ‘Follow me!’ and sets us to the tasks which He has to fulfill for our time….And to those who obey, whether they be wise or simple, He will reveal himself in the toils, the conflicts, the sufferings which they pass through in His fellowship, and, as an ineffable mystery, they shall learn in their own experience Who He is.ii  i Joan Chittister, For Everything a Season (Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 1995, 2013) p. 2 ii Albert Schweitzer, The Quest of the Historical Jesus, translated by W. Montgomery (Great Britain: A & C Black, Ltd., first English ed. 1910) p. 403 That’s what happened to those first disciples. They went back to Galilee and took up their ministry. They lived in a distinctive way: welcoming everyone, sharing resources, caring for each other, loving even their enemies, and serving the wider world. They became known as the People of the Way, the way of Jesus Christ. And in that process, an amazing thing happened. Those ordinary, flawed disciples---even Peter---discovered that they weren’t alone. Christ was with them.  And so they lived with a remarkable, irrepressible joy. In a Roman Empire that had grown fatalistic about life, these Christians did strange things. They rejoiced in inappropriate places, like prison cells. Or at the wrong times, like at funerals. They were the kind of people who, after receiving a diagnosis of cancer, go out and plant a tree. Or who, having failed at love or lost a loved one, choose to love and laugh and live again. They said, “We know that nothing, not even death, can separate us from the love of God.” They didn’t just intellectually accept the concept of resurrection: they practiced it.  That’s what Mark is doing in the original ending of his gospel. We’re reading along, drawn into the story, there with the women at the empty tomb, running out into the sunlight, back into the world. Suddenly the narrative breaks off, and its future is thrust into our hands. Suddenly we are characters in the story we are reading! What happens next? What will we do? There’s no closure on the Jesus story because we are invited into his continuing life.  So I guess I can’t end this sermon with an “Amen.” “But go, tell his disciples and Peter that he is gone before you to Galilee, and you will see him there.”            