Embracing Forgiveness II: “How to Forgive?” a sermon at EUMC 4-26-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Matthew 18:15-22 & II Corinthians 2:5-11  A distraught couple sits in their pastor’s study. They explain that one of them has been involved in an extramarital affair. The affair is over now, but the pain is not.  The husband says, “I love my wife, and I don’t want a divorce. But every time I think of her affair---every time I hear of anyone having an affair now, even in the movies, even on TV---I feel sick to my stomach. I don’t know if I will ever be able to trust her again. I know the answer lies in forgiveness, but how can I forgive?” The man’s wife, sitting beside him awash in tears, asks an even harder question: “How can I forgive myself?”  A woman sits in a career counselor’s office, having been laid off at her job after thirty years of loyal service. She is fifty-nine years old. The counselor tells her that her anger against her former employer is hurting no one but herself, and is getting in the way of her search for a new job. The woman exclaims, “I can’t even sleep at night, after the way I was treated! You expect me to just forget it and go on?”  We live in a world in which people regularly hurt one another. Injustices are committed. Pain is inflicted, often upon those who are most innocent and vulnerable. Every one of us, at some point in our lives, will be walked on or taken advantage of---betrayed by someone we trust, disappointed by someone we love. We will be hurt by others. At such times, the Christian faith calls for forgiveness.  We know that Jesus taught and demonstrated forgiveness. He called for loving one’s enemies, turning the other cheek, and walking the extra mile. If we are to be his followers, we must learn to practice forgiveness. We also know that forgiveness is commanded primarily for our own sake, not for the sake of those who have hurt us. Those who hurt us may, or may not, be transformed by our forgiveness. But forgiveness is what we need to do in order to be able to find peace.  We may know all this, but still the question remains: how do we forgive? Last week we began this series by considering the question, “Why forgive?” Today we move to the practical question of “How to Forgive?” And as we begin, I invite you to consider the ways you have been hurt in life---the people and events that you need to forgive.  Of course, not every single hurt you have sustained over the years is a big deal. If every name you were ever called, every test you failed, or every disappointment you ever experienced still affected you deeply, you would be too paralyzed by pain to get out of bed in the morning. On the other hand, you can probably think of at least one hurt you have received in life that you still hold onto, or that still has a hold on you.  When someone brings up a topic related to your wound---betrayal or bullying or whatever it was that hurt you---you bristle and cringe. Or when the name of a particular person comes up, the wound is reopened. You’ve been hurt, and you are still bleeding. To some extent, your woundedness diminishes your life and limits your freedom. You want to be free of this burden. Where do you start?  Turn to our text for this morning. The part of the text that is most quoted comes at the end, where Peter asks Jesus, “If someone sins against me, how often do I have to forgive? As many as seven times?” Jesus answers, “Not seven times, but seventy times seven.” That is to say: Forgiveness isn’t a one-time, once-and-for all activity. It is a process, much like the human processes of grief or physical healing. And like grief or healing, forgiveness has its own timing, and its own pace.  That means we can’t expect to wake up one morning and think, “OK, today’s the day I’m going to forgive someone who hurt me,” and then blithely do it. What we can do is begin wherever we are, even if it is only to say, “I don’t forgive the person who hurt me. I don’t even want to forgive him. But I want to move in the direction of healing.” With that, we have taken a step forward. God will bless that step, and increase it. Forgiveness is a process that can’t be forced, but only embraced, day by day by day.  Well, then, what are the steps of that process? And how do we embrace them? In real life, the process doesn’t move in a straight line. Healing may happen in fits and starts, and no two people experience forgiveness in exactly the same way. But turn back to our text again. Just before the well-known verses about forgiving seventy times seven there is another passage, less often quoted, about how to forgive. Let’s look at it this morning.  First this. “If another member of the church sins against you, go and point out the fault when the two of you are alone.”  There is an assumption embedded in this instruction. It has to do with what might be called “claiming and naming the hurt.” Claiming the hurt is the opposite of denial. That is, when we are injured, a natural reaction is often to minimize what has happened. We say, “She didn’t fire me. I quit,” or we tell the person who has hurt us, “It doesn’t bother me.” Denial is especially natural when a pain is fresh and severe, just as shock is a natural reaction when we receive a physical injury.  But emotional wounds, like physical ones, cannot be ignored without consequences. A cut that is band-aided over when it really needs thorough medical attention can fester. In the same way, emotional wounds that we pass over, carrying on as if nothing happened, may cause recurrent pain and may never properly heal.  Claiming the hurt is hard work, however. No one really wants to claim something that is painful. But this first step of forgiveness cannot be bypassed. We have to acknowledge the situation as honestly as we can, as in, “I was a neglected child,” or “This is an abusive relationship.” We might come to God in prayer, for example, and say, “I was criticized unjustly and humiliated at my job. At first I felt numb. Now I’m beginning to feel incredibly angry. I’m going to need some real help with this, God.”  It requires courage to let yourself remember, know, and appreciate the gravity of a hurt that has been inflicted on you. For more serious hurts you may need to find a therapist who will safely guide you through this part of the process. But somehow---perhaps in prayer, or with a trusted friend---we have to recognize the extent of our injuries. We have to see what they have done to our trust, our sense of justice, and our self-worth. Only then can we go to the person who has hurt us, and confront them with the situation.  Our text continues. “If the member listens to you, you have regained that one. But if you are not listened to, take one or two others along with you, so that every word may be confirmed by the evidence of two or three witnesses.”  The process of forgiveness continues with the seeking of justice. We all know that there are at least two sides to every story. So the next step of forgiveness is a communal process of discovering and determining responsibility for what has happened. The process involves fact-finding and filtering: What exactly went on? How did it occur? It also involves weighing the evidence on the responsibility scale: Who had power in the relationship? And who was most vulnerable?  I once counseled a woman who had been sexually assaulted many years before. It had been a violent attack by a total stranger. But years later, this woman was still asking herself: What could I have done to avoid this? What did I do to provoke it? If I had just been somewhere else that day, this would not have happened. Why didn’t I see it coming? Should I have struggled more? Did I deserve what happened to me?  It is important that we look squarely at the hurts we have received and ask ourselves what role we played in them, so that we can take responsibility for what is ours. Next Sunday we will look more closely at the subject of self-forgiveness. But you can see how self-blame can spiral out of control and personal responsibility can be exaggerated beyond reason. If we think we are responsible for everything and everyone, even things that are truly beyond our control, we will become perfectionists and ultimately defeated people.  So there ought to be a communal process of determining facts and responsibility. And it may happen that in this process, the person or persons who are at fault will own up to it, and insofar as possible, try to make amends. There may be acts of restitution that can occur. There may be genuine repentance and change. There may even be restoration of relationships, and reunion of all parties.  But what happens if the person or persons who are at fault take no responsibility? Or if what was taken away can never be made right? The stranger who attacked the woman I counseled was never caught. Justice was never done. The person who caused your hurt may never acknowledge it, may downplay or even deny it. What then? What do you do?  Our text goes on. “If the member refuses to listen, tell it to the church; and if the offender refuses to listen even to the church, let such a one be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector.” In other words, leave vengeance to God, and let it go. Shake the dust from your feet, and move on. This may be the hardest part of forgiveness. For it requires, among other thing, letting go of victimhood. A natural part of the process of forgiveness is that we come to see ourselves as victims---for in fact, we are. We have been hurt, unjustly. The problem comes when we then go through life always expecting the worst, or repeating the past. When this happens, we are sinking into a mire of helplessness. The victim part of who we are becomes the largest part of our identity, and “victim” becomes not just what happened to us, but who we are.  We all know people who are stuck in this mire. Most of us have been there ourselves a time or two. One step toward moving out of perpetual victimhood is to join a support group in which we can discover that our hurts are not unique, that there are others who understand what we have been through, and that there are similarly wounded people who are moving on with their lives.  We can also fight victimhood by focusing on our gifts, our strengths, and the blessings in our lives. We can refuse to be perpetual victims. We can allow our pain to teach us compassion for others. We can even channel our anger and outrage into positive action for change. And we can remember that no matter how badly we have been hurt, each of us is more than the wounds we have received.  Which brings us to integration, the goal of this process of forgiveness. With tears, prayer, and time, we can finally recognize that although we were hurt, we did, in fact, survive. Our painful experiences took something from us, but gave us things as well. We are finally able to put the injury into perspective, neither dwelling on it nor forgetting it, but seeing it for what it is: a part of who we are, but not all of who we are.  We might even become able to see, at this point, that, just as we are more than victims, the person who injured us is more than a victimizer. He or she is a weak, fallible human being, like ourselves, with his or her own history, sorrows, and needs. Now we can let that person go, and release the power they have held over us---even if they aren’t sorry, even if they are long gone. We might even be able to wish them well. We are at peace.  This process of forgiveness is not linear: we may need to return several times to certain stages, and it may take a long time for us to experience its fullness and completeness. And this process isn’t easy: it may be the hardest work we ever do.  But the great thing is: we don’t do this work alone. The process of forgiveness isn’t something we create: it’s more like a flowing river that bears us up and carries us along. It is the work of God, who is utterly devoted to our healing and growth. We can trust that, and lean into it.  Through the process of forgiveness, we can allow the love of God to make us whole.  Amen.   