Embracing Forgiveness III: “Forgiven Much, Love Much” EUMC 4-26-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Luke 7:36-47 & Ephesians 4:25-32  Let’s begin with our gospel scene for today. We are at a dinner party thrown by a Pharisee, whose guests are prominent in the community. At the center of this meal is Jesus, the young prophet who everyone is talking about.  The host, whose name is Simon, is somewhat cool toward Jesus. We don’t know why. But Simon doesn’t embrace Jesus when he arrives. He doesn’t call for a servant to come and wash Jesus’ feet, or to anoint his hands and feet with olive oil. That is to say: Simon neglects the common courtesies, in his culture, of a host toward a respected guest.  The party is underway when---unexpectedly---a woman appears in the room. The woman is not identified by name; we’re told only that she is a “sinner.” Given that the word “sinner” is variously used in Luke’s gospel, we need not assume that she was a prostitute, as if that’s the only sin of which a woman was capable in the 1st century. But we can assume that whatever she’s done, the others who are present---including Simon---know about it. And they are offended by her presence among them.  Their dismay is soon amplified by the woman’s behavior---which is outrageous according to the social etiquette of the time. For she lavishes attention upon Jesus. Jesus sits at a low table, his legs turned to the right and his feet behind him. The woman comes to stand behind him, weeping. Then she kneels down and washes his feet with her tears! She loosens her long hair and uses it as a towel. She anoints Jesus with precious, perfumed oil. She even kisses his feet---which was what you did, in Jewish custom, when someone had saved your life.  Apparently Jesus knows what has prompted this extravagant and public display of devotion. And he doesn’t object. Simon, however, mutters under his breath, “If this man were really a prophet, he would have known what kind of woman this is who is touching him.” It’s disgusting! Whereupon Jesus turns to Simon with a question that takes the form of a short parable.  Who do you think would be more grateful, Jesus asks, a man whose debt of five hundred denarii has been cancelled, or one who is forgiven fifty? A denarius was the value of a day’s wages, but you don’t need to know that in order to do the math. The first man is forgiven ten times what the other man is. Simon answers, “I suppose…it would be the man for whom the greater debt was cancelled.” We hear the intonation in his words, “I suppose…”  But the obvious analogy is to the woman who has crashed this party. Apparently she has been forgiven much, perhaps ten times what others have been forgiven. Which explains why she is devoting herself to Jesus, and weeping as she does. She’s overcome by gratitude. She has been given her life back! Jesus says to Simon, “You see this woman? You didn’t give me the bare essentials of hospitality when I entered your house. But this woman washes my feet with her tears!” Then Jesus adds these profound words: “Whoever who has been forgiven much, loves much. But whoever has been forgiven little, loves little.”  We are now in the third of our four-week series on forgiveness. We began with the question, “Why Forgive?” Last Sunday we looked at “How to Forgive.” And in response to those two sermons, some of you have written or spoken to me, saying, “It’s one thing to forgive other people. But how do we forgive ourselves? That can be even harder.”  So let’s look at that question today, in light of our gospel story. The woman in the scene is identified only as a “sinner,” someone who has committed an unspecified wrong---or wrongs. But whatever she’s done, she has received forgiveness. And she has allowed herself to receive it, which is another way of saying that she has forgiven herself. She has let forgiveness in and allowed it to redefine her; she has been restored to life! And it is so beautiful that it breaks her heart, and all she can do is express her gratitude.  Last week we looked at the steps that are involved in the process of forgiving others. This morning let’s look at those same steps as they apply to forgiving ourselves.i We might remember, at the outset, that forgiveness is a process. Depending on the seriousness of the hurts we have inflicted, it may take a long time, and prayer, and tears. It may need to be repeated more than once. And in the process of receiving forgiveness, we may need to seek the help of others: a pastor or priest, a therapist, or trusted friends.  As you might guess, the first step in forgiveness is recognizing our need for it. The woman at the dinner party knows she needed forgiveness; Simon, the host, believes he does not. This first step is sometimes called “claiming and naming the hurt.” And we’re not talking now about confessing our sinfulness as human beings in a general way, but about specific ways that we ourselves have wronged or harmed others. Perhaps, as we walk through these steps, you may want to bring to your mind something that you know you need forgiveness for.  Be as specific as possible, in the privacy of your own mind, here before God. No one else is going to know what you are thinking! And name just one thing: we can’t usually receive forgiveness for more than one thing at a time. You might say, for instance, “I lied to someone who trusted me.” Or, “I chose to drink and drive that night.” Or, “I gossiped about a friend.” Or, “I turned away from someone who needed and deserved my help.”  These are the kind of things that pierce us with honest judgments against ourselves. And the more decent we are, the more acutely we are likely to feel the unfair hurts we have caused others. We don’t have to be “bad” people to do bad things. If only bad people did bad things to others, we would live in a pretty good world.  It takes courage to claim and name a hurt we have inflicted. We might write it down, or confess it to one other person, to keep from sliding backward into denying or minimizing what we have done. But let’s say we have named something, and we’ve allowed ourselves to see the extent of the damage we have caused. Unless it would cause additional and unfair hurt to do so, the next step is to go to the person or persons we have wronged and apologize: honestly and sincerely, without making excuses for ourselves. And if there is any way to undo the harm we’ve done, or to make amends for it, we do that, as well.  Now, forgiveness means release from the burden of the past, not freedom from responsibility. The consequences of our behavior remain. And we aren’t entitled to forgiveness just because we apologize and try to make amends. We have no right to demand forgiveness, or to insist on reconciliation. If the person we’ve harmed does give us the gift of forgiveness, that’s what it is: a gift, to be received with gratitude and joy. And we may allow their forgiveness to give us permission to forgive ourselves.  But what if the person we’ve harmed can’t, or isn’t ready to, forgive? What if they slam the door in our face? Our only option, at that point, is to go to God. We can continue in prayer for the healing of that person, and turn to God to help us with this process. For whether or not forgiveness is given by the one we’ve harmed, God still welcomes us to the blessedness and dignity of children of God. God can give us the permission and power to forgive ourselves, even if the person we’ve wronged does not.  Now we come to the stage called “integration,” which includes seeking to understand ourselves so that we can learn from our mistakes. In God’s loving presence, we can ask hard questions like: What hurt us so deeply that we needed to hurt others? What power possessed us and made us feel helpless to do otherwise? What ignorance made us think we acted righteously? We ask these so that we might do differently in the future than we have done in the past. Our question is not whether we did a hurtful thing. We did. The question is whether that event should be allowed to define who we are, and determine the rest of our life.  Sometimes quickly, but more often slowly, God’s forgiveness comes to us, like sunlight filtering through the leaves of a dark forest. The split between our own internal judger and the one being judged is gradually healed. It’s a process, remember! But with the cleansed vision of forgiveness, we no longer let our former self curse the person we are now becoming.  We still acknowledge the injury we caused, but we also see ourselves anew through God’s eyes, with kindness and compassion. We see our potential for good, the light that shines at our deepest core. It was God who said, “Let light shine out of darkness,” and who continues to create and re-create us. It is Christ who says to the woman at the party, and says to us with authority: “Your sins are forgiven.” In humility, we receive that gift. We allow ourselves to trust in God’s grace and mercy, and go forward with our lives.  A word of caution is in order, however, which is why our text from Luke’s gospel is such a good one for today. You may be like the woman at the party: no longer focused on your guilt and unworthiness, now forgiven and set free. But you need to remember that there are plenty of self-righteous people in the world who don’t want you to forgive yourself. They are the Simons of the world, who want you to punish yourself, and keep on punishing. They want you to wear a red letter of perpetual shame on your chest, and never take it off.  I understand the Simons of the world. I can be one of them. There is something in me---is there in you, too?---that wants a wrongdoer to keep a low profile, speak with a meek voice, and grovel a little. Maybe a lot. But I also know how pinched and tight and shut down it is to be like Simon. Your heart contracted, disdainful, proud. And inwardly as hard on yourself as you are on everyone else. I tell you, it’s no way to live. “Whoever is forgiven little, loves little.” i I am especially indebted this morning to two classic books on the process of forgiveness by Lewis Smedes: Forgive and Forget: Healing the Hurts We Don’t Deserve (New York: Pocket Books, Simon & Schuster, 1984) and The Art of Forgiving (Nashville, Tennessee: Random House, 1996). I also consulted many other sources, and the same themes appear in most of them! These are the two books I most highly recommend. So when you act like a person who has forgiven yourself, happy and at ease in your own skin in spite of your past, expect consternation from the self-righteous crowd. You’ll need courage to face the Simons in your life! While you experience healing and release, they may feel irritable and suspicious; too many rules are being broken by all this freedom! They may be resentful, or even hostile. And they will probably want you to change back to the way you used to be.  But don’t do it. You know how you will know when you have forgiven yourself? It’s like driving on a highway and reaching the top of a long hill. You may not be exactly sure when you have reached level ground, but you can tell that you have passed the top when the car suddenly surges forward. When you have allowed yourself to receive the gift of forgiveness, you experience a burst of spontaneous, generous love for other people.  Your heart expands. You may do something impulsive, like send roses to the woman who won’t forgive you. She may toss them in the trash---which is OK with you! You throw your arms around a friend you’ve never touched before. You call up your Dad and tell him that you love him. You give a handful of twenties to a homeless stranger. You do something extravagant that the practical part of yourself thinks is nutty. You celebrate the miracle of forgiveness!  So go ahead, and be overcome by gratitude. Weep with the joy of it; let down your hair! Kneel at Christ’s feet and offer your gifts. Let God’s forgiveness flow through you, and emerge from you as unbounded love for others. For it is as Jesus said:  “Whoever is forgiven much, loves much.”  Amen.                  