Embracing Forgiveness IV: “No Matter What” a sermon on Mother’s Day 5-10-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James at EUMC texts: Isaiah 49:8-15 & Acts 17:22-28  Among the ancient Hebrews, the center of religious life was the great Temple in Jerusalem. In the heart of the Temple was a small curtained-off room called the Holy of Holies. The Hebrews believed that God’s presence abided in that place in an exceptionally powerful way. In the Book of Exodus, God promises, “There I will meet you.”i  Within the Holy of Holies stood the ark of the covenant, a rectangular box containing the scrolls of the Torah, God’s holy law. And on top of the ark lay a slab of gold called the “mercy seat.” This was believed to be the seat of God’s presence on earth.  On one day a year the High Priest of the Temple would enter the Holy of Holies and there, behind the curtain, pray to God on behalf of the people. The priest sprinkled the blood of a perfect animal seven times as a sign of God’s forgiveness and mercy toward the whole nation. The Hebrews believed that forgiveness radiated from the mercy seat in the heart of the Temple outward, into the hearts and lives of all the people of God.  In the Book of Revelation, at the end of the Bible, John tells of how an angel showed him God’s throne, and from that golden seat flowed a crystal-bright river of life. That stream nourishes the tree of life that will bring about the “healing of the nations.”ii These vivid images appear in some of our most beloved hymns, as in “streams of mercy, never ceasing,” and “shall we gather at the river…that flows by the throne of God.”  From beginning to end, our Bible celebrates the forgiveness and mercy of God. God’s loving power emanates from a golden mercy seat. Forgiveness and mercy are poured out on this world in an ever-flowing, healing stream. What does it mean, this beautiful biblical word “mercy”? Let’s look at it today.  There are several words in the Bible that are translated into English as “mercy,” but this morning I want to focus on one in particular: the Hebrew word rachamim. In its singular form, rechem, this word literally means “womb” or “uterus.” When expressed in plural form, rachamim, the word takes on a more figurative meaning: mercy, or “womb-love,” meaning a love like that of a mother for the child in her womb.  Now you see why I saved this aspect of forgiveness for today, which also happens to be Mother’s Day! The biblical concept of mercy includes forgiveness, but is bigger and richer, as its root meaning suggests.  Suppose you were reading along in your Bible, and whenever you came across the English word, mercy, you saw “womb-love” instead---which you do, in the original Hebrew. You would read in the Psalms, for instance, that God’s mercy (read “womb-love” or “mother love”) fills all the earth. God’s love surrounds and embraces this world. We humans exist on earth like children in God’s womb, suspended in an environment perfectly calibrated to support our life. In today’s text from the Book of acts, the apostle Paul speaks of God as “the One in whom we live and move and have our being.” When do we live and move and have our being within someone else, except as infants in our mother’s womb?  Awhile back I came across a cartoon that pictures twin babies floating in the waters of a womb. The two siblings are already arguing, as they’ll probably be doing for the rest of their lives. One is saying, “There is a mother; I know it. I sense her presence all around us.” The other says, “If there were a mother, why would she be so elusive? You have no proof; you just believe whatever you want to believe.” The joke is that like us, even as they are surrounded by the One on whom their lives depend, the children perceive their Mother only dimly, and argue over whether she exists at all.  What is our scripture saying when it speaks of the “womb-love” of God?  To begin with, the metaphor suggests an extraordinary intimacy between God and human beings, an intimacy so close that we actually have a shared life. It suggests that God isn’t some distant and uninvolved Creator who set the universe in motion and then went away and let it run. God is more like a Mother whose own life is intimately and dynamically bound up with the life of the child she carries within her own body.  Mercy, then, has something to do with closeness and connection. To have mercy for another person is almost to get inside their skin, or to have them get inside yours---to feel what they feel, to be affected by what affects them. How many times have you heard a parent say, “I wish it were me who was sick or suffering, instead of my child. It would be easier.” This quality of identifying so fully with another that you feel their sorrows and joys as your own is one facet of what the Bible means by “mercy.”  Here is a further dimension. Where rachamim appears in the Bible, again and again it is in the context of the assertion that God loves God’s children--human beings--no matter what---no matter what we do, what we believe, whether we are good or bad, whether we love God in return, or not.  Not long ago I was talking with one of my oldest friends. We knew each other in college; we were bridesmaids in each other’s weddings; we coached each other through the births of our children. We were reminiscing about all that and my friend said, “You know, it wasn’t until I became a mother myself that I began to understand my own mother’s love for me. You hold this baby in your arms and suddenly, effortlessly, you love them. And you want nothing more desperately than for them to have a good life.”  She went on, “Then they become teenagers. You find yourself looking at this young person who is challenging you and you think: I am still your parent and you are still my child, no matter what. Even if you reject everything I stand for. Even if you dye your hair purple and pierce tender parts of your body. Even if you hate me and say awful things to me. Even if you run away from home, even if you break my heart…I will never stop longing to see you again. I am your mother. No matter what you do or where you go, I will always love you.”  Our Bible is the story of a people who repeatedly turn away from God. But God’s mercy still flows to them without ceasing. In Isaiah, God says to the Hebrews, “Can a woman forget her sucking baby, that she should have no mercy on the child of her womb? Even these may forget, but I will not forget you.” In Jeremiah, God anguishes over Israel, which has abandoned its faith, and God says, “Is Ephraim my dear son? My darling child? …my womb trembles for him; I will truly show mercy upon him.”  In English we often equate the word “mercy” with forgiveness. Rachamim does include forgiveness, but in a particular form. In your usual form of human forgiveness, one person agrees to put behind them the wrong done by another, and go forward. Mercy, however, never counted the wrong in the first place. One who is merciful may grieve and suffer over wrongs committed by another, but never regards those wrongs as a stumbling block to relationship.  In other words, the hand of mercy is always extended. It has no desire to condemn, or eagerness to take offense. When offense is given, it does not withdraw the outstretched hand. This is why the Psalms speak of God’s mercy as everlasting. It’s the sort of forgiveness that is perpetual, as referred to in the quotation at the top of your bulletin today, from Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.: “Forgiveness is not an occasional act. It is a permanent attitude.”  Mercy is the rain that falls on the just and the unjust alike. It’s the love of the father who looks out the window and waits for his prodigal son to come home. It’s the truth of God’s own being. God simply loves us, always and forever, no matter what. God’s mercy flows through life in this world as an indiscriminate, unconditional, ever-flowing stream.  Which brings us to another element of mercy, not to be overlooked. That is: like the womb of a human mother, mercy surrounds but does not possess. It sustains, but does not control.  As a pastor, I often meet with people who are angry at God. They say, “If God is all-powerful and all-good, why is there so much evil in the world?” Or maybe they’re going through something difficult or tragic or unfair. In bewilderment and anger, they ask, “Why is God allowing this terrible thing to happen to me?”  At such times I recall a thin little book by Leslie Weatherhead, written in 1944, at the end of World War II. The book (which I highly recommend) is called The Will of God. Weatherhead was the pastor of a London church. He asked: why do we speak as if everything that happens in this world is God’s will? If that’s true, then God is arbitrary and cruel, even sadistic.  Weatherhead says: but we are wrong to think of God as a king sitting on a high throne, looking down and controlling everything that happens on earth, pulling the puppet strings or pulling the levers, saying, “OK, this person will die of cancer, but that one will survive. I will give your child a long and happy life. But I decree that your child will starve, and yours will be maimed by a roadside bomb, and yours bitten by a mosquito carrying malaria.” What would be the difference, in that case, between God and Satan?  In the midst of London’s post-war rubble, Weatherhead writes:  i Exodus 25:22 ii Rev. 22:1-2 …by our confusion we thrust people’s minds into unbelievable torment; we blunt the edge of social purpose until they mutter the slogan, “God’s will be done,” when the very opposite of God’s will is being done!  In that same book, Weatherhead uses an image that has stayed with me. He says: We would do better to picture God’s power as a stream flowing down a hill. We humans have the freedom and the power to divert the stream: like children with buckets and spades, we can dig ditches and build dams. We can choose to do evil and defy God’s will. For God will not coerce or control. God has forever renounced force over us.  Even so, Weatherhead says, all of that water will make it to the sea. God’s will may be temporarily thwarted, in which case the water has to find another route around or through the obstacles placed before it. So we can trust that God’s loving purposes will ultimately prevail. In this sense, God is all-powerful. God’s mercy persists. So, for example, Weatherhead says: God’s will was for human beings to follow Jesus, not to murder him! But since that’s what people did, God’s will was accomplished another way. The cross itself became a means by which people were drawn to follow Christ.  Do you see what this does to our anger over the evil and sorrow in this world? We still feel it, but God feels it with us. And we can stop blaming God. We might even be able to forgive God for not being the sort of God we imagined. The biblical concept of God reigning from the mercy seat—not removed and high up but in the midst of the people--- means that God isn’t making bad things happen to good people. When bad things do happen, God suffers with us, sustains us, and persists in bringing about healing, redemption, goodness and life.  And finally this. Like a human parent, God wants us to grow up into the full strength and dignity of adult children of God, and to work alongside God in this world.  The apostle Paul wrote to the early Christians, “Do you not know that you are God’s temple and that God’s Spirit dwells in you?...God’s temple is holy, and you are that temple.”iii Paul was saying that the Holy of Holies was not just located in Jerusalem, but is…in us! Within each one of us shines the pure gold of the mercy seat. “There I will meet you,” God says.  Or to use Weatherhead’s imagery: We humans can grow up, and choose to serve God’s will, rather than thwart it. When we work for justice and peace, when we live with compassion, when we practice forgiveness and mercy, the love of God flows in us and through us. It’s a crystal-bright, healing stream.  So at the end of this series on forgiveness, here is what I want to say. Cling to the mercy seat. Allow God’s mercy for you and for all God’s children to flow through your life. Seek to love as God loves, and forgive as God forgives. And God will be with you , no matter what.  Amen.  iii I Cor. 3:16-17 