“God Is Still Speaking” a sermon preached at EUMC 5-17-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Isaiah 43:15-19 & John 16:12-13  In the year 1620, a group of English Separatists, known today as the pilgrims, boarded a ship called the Mayflower. The 102 passengers—men, women, and children---had great hopes for a new life in the New World. There they would find liberty to follow God in the things that had been revealed to their own hearts and understanding.  A minister by the name of John Robinson, who himself stayed behind, sent the departing company off on their pilgrim voyage with these earnest words:   I charge you before God…that…if God reveals anything to you by any other instrument of His, be as ready to receive it as you were to receive any truth by my ministry, for I am verily persuaded the Lord hath more truth yet to break forth out of His Holy Word.i  Robinson was articulating a confidence in God’s real and ongoing presence in this world. Those early pilgrims believed in what is called, in theological language, “continuous” or “ongoing” revelation. That is, they believed that God didn’t interact only with people in ancient, biblical times, and then go away or fall silent. Rather, as the modern-day descendents of the pilgrims, the United Church of Christ, puts it, “God is still speaking.”ii  Our Bible, too, points to a God who is continually interacting with people. When Moses asks God’s name, God refuses to be boxed in, answering “I am who I am,” or “I will be who I will be.” Who I am will be revealed as we go along, in a genuine relationship that unfolds over time. With Abraham, we learn that God is perpetually casting out the suggestion that we go on an adventure of faith, into new and unknown territory.  In our first reading for this morning, from the prophet Isaiah, God says, “I am about to do a new thing.” God is a Spirit that does new things in this world. In today’s gospel reading, Jesus tells his disciples, “I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. When the Spirit of truth comes, it will guide you into all the truth, …and declare to you the things that are to come.” The moving of the Spirit will lead you into the next phase of God’s blessing.  In the 4th Century after Jesus, a series of Councils decided on what is called the canon of the Bible, the fixed number of books that constitute the Bible we have today. But even that was a process that didn’t happen all at once. And even in closing the canon, the Councils were assuming that God’s Spirit was leading them to do so! Centuries after the time of Christ, God was still speaking!  In other words, the canon of the Bible is closed because it contains enough, not because God is enclosed within its pages, or because God has already said everything there is to say. Today, in any other field of life, we wouldn’t let a Council of 4th Century scholars tell us what to read and what to believe! We wouldn’t try to freeze truth at some point in the past, and assume that there was nothing else for us to experience or to learn.  An ever-present danger in Christian history is that people stop at one reform or another and say, “Ah, now we’ve got it,” and then try to fix that understanding in stone for all time. There lies the way of ossification, or the fossilization of Western Christianity. But our religion was never meant to be a stop sign. It’s a road sign. It points beyond itself to the Living God, and to the Kingdom of God that is the destination of the Christian life.  If God is alive and well and at work in this world, and God’s Spirit is still speaking to people today, an important question is: how do we listen for God’s voice, and discern that it is God’s? For especially in today’s pluralistic world, many voices claim to be speaking for God. How do we distinguish God’s voice amidst all the other voices?  Let’s say you have a decision to make. You ask, “God, what is your will for my life? Shall I take that job? Shall I marry this person? In what direction are you urging me to go?” Or let’s say we have a question before us as a community of faith. We ask, “God, how shall we order our life together? Shall we buy or sell this or that property? Start this or that new ministry? What is your will for us on contemporary issues like immigration? race relations? war?  Along with the United Church of Christ and many other denominations, we United Methodists believe that God is still speaking today. God is not silent on these questions. And as United Methodists, we have our own way of thinking about and describing how we go about discerning God’s voice. Some of you are long-time United Methodists and will recognize these general guidelines; for others they may be new. Let’s lift them up today.  A first assumption that guides our listening for God’s voice is that it is a communal process. God may speak to us in the silences of our own heart and conscience, but our individual perceptions need to be tested in the context of Christian community.  For instance, an individual may feel called by God to become a pastor, but in the United Methodist Church, that calling needs to be ratified by the community. Our ordination process requires that the individual who feels called by God also undertake a series of steps through which others pray about it, ask questions, review demonstrated behavior, and affirm that yes, we see evidence that you have the gifts and graces for this particular ministry.  The community isn’t always right, of course. It’s subject to error, like all things human,. But overall, we probably have a better chance of discerning God’s will together than apart. We’re like the blind men describing the elephant, each one describing what he “sees” and in danger of thinking it’s the whole thing: a trunk, a tail, a leg. When we “confer” together about the truth we each perceive, we create a more accurate picture than any of us could create alone.  This is why United Methodists hold so many conferences, at every level of our life together. Next Sunday we will have a Church Conference here in this congregation, to elect our leaders for the coming year. In June, some of us will attend the Annual Conference of United Methodists in the Pacific Northwest, made up of members from every local church who will confer---and pray, and yes, argue together---and so arrive at our best sense of how God is leading us to decide on the particular issues that come before us. In May of 2016, the General Conference of our whole denomination will be held in Portland, Oregon. This is the first time it’s ever been held in our part of the country. You might want to attend as a volunteer or an observer. General Conference, which meets every four years, is colorful and exciting. In Portland, about nine hundred representatives from United Methodist churches around the globe will ask how the Spirit of God is moving among us and speaking to us today. They will set our direction for the next four years.  “Holy conferencing” is a process of discernment that honors both majority and minority points of view. It’s this communal process that has allowed our church to change over time, and so remain relevant in a changing world. Through the years, Methodists have grappled with---and changed our stance on---things like slavery, child labor, the ordination of women, and racial integration. Next year’s General Conference will be listening for God’s leading on issues ranging from poverty to homosexuality to climate change.  Our process of discernment is disciplined as well as democratic. Following the lead of John Wesley, Methodists have always held that if you want to discern God’s will, there are at least four reliable sources to consult. These four sources of revelation, sometimes called “the Wesleyan quadrilateral,” are: scripture, tradition, reason, and experience.  Scripture is the depository of a people’s consciousness of God, a record of past revelation. It’s not the last word in our ongoing dialogue with God, but it is a living word through which God is still speaking today. In the pages of scripture, we meet a God who loves this world passionately, and who wills only the good; a God who is always on the side of human dignity and freedom; a God whose very essence is Love.  So, for example, in the Hebrew Bible, God revealed that slavery was wrong. Nevertheless, the Hebrews had slaves, although by ancient standards their system of slavery was unusually humane because it was shaped by the event of the Exodus. Only over time, as the Spirit interpreted the full significance of the Exodus, was slavery finally understood as radically wrong. Even in today’s world, slavery appears in new forms, and God’s word on the subject needs to be heard again.  For Christians, the gospels are our “canon within the canon,” the authority by which everything else---including everything else in the Bible---is evaluated. Thus even within a set canon of the Bible, there is room for God to continue to reveal and refine its meaning over time. God continues to inspire amazing new understandings, even millennia later, through the Bible we have. In other words, “God hath more light to break forth from [God’s] Holy Word.” Tradition is the second side of the Wesleyan quadrilateral. This refers to our Christian heritage over the two thousand years since biblical times. If we are seeking to know God’s will, why not listen to the experience of other Christians who have gone before us? What did Hildegaard of Bingen learn, in her years of loving God? What about John Calvin, or C.S. Lewis, or Dorothy Day? Their spiritual struggles were not all that different from ours. If we want to hear God speaking, we ought to listen to the stories and collective wisdom of our tradition.  A third locus of revelation is reason. We are to love God with all our hearts, souls, and minds. United Methodists believe that God does not ask us to suspend our intellects, or check our minds at the door of the church! If you have a decision to make and you want to listen for God’s leading, ask some reasonable questions, like: What principles or values are at stake? What are your available options? What are the probable consequences of this or that course of action? And what do the best minds of our time---in science or medicine or psychology or theology---have to say about your particular question?  If you need one star to travel by, ask, “What would Jesus do?” Or perhaps, “What does Love require?” Or: “Where is Love leading us now?” As we grow toward the fullness of life in God’s Kingdom, some things that Christians used to do (the Salem witch hunts come to mind) simply don’t reflect our present understanding of a compassionate, inclusive and loving God.  Which leads to the final place to listen to God speaking, and the fourth side of the quadrilateral: experience. Look back over your life and see if there are patterns you can identify. Pay attention to your dreams and your deepest intuition. Look for God in your own experiences of nature and human relationships. Become part of a ChristCare group here at church, in which you will find companions who will essentially ask you, week to week, “How is it with your soul?” With that kind of accountability, we all start to pay more attention to that “still, small voice” that speaks through our individual and communal life experiences.  This is a dynamic way to do theology! We bring a question or issue into the Wesleyan quadrilateral, and it swirls from corner to corner: scripture, tradition, reason, and experience, all in conversation with each other. And in the midst of this conversation, we discover that God is larger than what we thought we knew. As Jesus promised, the Spirit of truth comes. It opens us to what God is doing in the world, and how we can be part of it. God is still speaking.  Let me close with a prayer that comes from the Christian community of Ionaiii:  In the gift of this new day, in the gift of the present moment, in the gift of time and eternity intertwined, in the gifts of scripture and community and worship, Let us give thanks. Let us be attentive. Let us be open to fresh stirrings of the Spirit. Let us listen for the voice of God.  Amen.       i This can be found in any number of sources: see on line, for instance: http://www.newtestamentpattern.net/christian-articles/sundry-thoughts/the-words-of-john-robinson_mayflower/. Robinson’s words are also included in the lyrics of a hymn that we are singing in today’s service, “We Limit Not the Truth of God.” ii This is the current motto or slogan of the United Church of Christ, in which I grew up. It usually appears as it does on the top of our bulletin this morning, with a comma at the end, since the UCC advises: “Never put a period where God has placed a comma.” iii This is a modified version of a prayer that was offered by John Philip Newell as part of the “Pilgrimage for Change” in which I participated two summers ago, on the island of Iona. 