“A Murmuration of Starlings” Pentecost Sunday at EUMC 5-24-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Acts 2:1-17, Gen. 8: 6-11 & Matt. 3:13-17  Along with many of you, I’m sure, I like to listen to Garrison Keillor on the radio show, “A Prairie Home Companion.” He also comes on tour to Seattle from time to time, telling his stories about growing up in Lake Wobegone, Minnesota.  Religion in Lake Wobegone, as you may know, is mostly Lutheran, although there is a Catholic church there with the wonderful name, “Our Lady of Perpetual Responsibility.” But it’s mostly the Lutherans that Keillor talks about. And many of us are attracted to his stories about them because, although it’s Lutherans he’s talking about, in them we Methodists also recognize ourselves.  One of Keillor’s classic stories is especially appropriate for Pentecost.i He tells about a traveling evangelist who comes to Lake Wobegone with her “gospel birds.” Her parakeets re-enact the story of Noah’s ark. They are all dressed up like animals: little elephants, tigers, and lions. They walk two-by-two up a little wooden plank into a miniature ark, while four parakeets play tiny bells to the words, “I sing because I’m happy, I sing because I’m free, for his eye is on the sparrow, and I know he watches me.”  Then the evangelist preaches, and concludes by saying, “Now, with every eye closed and every head bowed…” That’s the set-up for the altar call. She says, “With every eye closed and with every head bowed…will you just sit where you are now, and contemplate God’s great love for our lives. And when one of the birds lands on your shoulder, I want you, if you feel a blessing in your heart, to stand up right where you are.”  Well, Lutherans are a lot like United Methodists. They are used to closing their eyes and bowing their heads, but they usually don’t expect something dramatic to happen. Now they are being warned by this evangelist. When you bow your head and think about God, get ready for a visitation. Which made them very anxious and uncomfortable. But they closed their eyes and bowed their heads anyway, although some of them peeked.  I remind you of what I’m sure Garrison Keillor knew when he wrote this story: that in religious imagery, the bird is a powerful symbol. The bird is a symbol of the Holy Spirit, God’s real presence in our midst. In Genesis, the Spirit hovers over the waters of creation like a dove. At his baptism in the River Jordan, Jesus sees “the Spirit of God descending like a dove and alighting on him.” This same image is associated with the story of Pentecost in Acts 2, when God’s presence was experienced by the disciples in the Upper Room.  So here are these Lake Wobegone Lutherans, gathered not in the Upper Room, but in the church basement, waiting for the Holy Spirit to descend. …They found, as they sat there, that thoughts of divine providence did come to their minds, thoughts of a great love that seemed to abide in the world, and that upheld and supported them.  As they sat and meditated on this, one by one each of them felt a slight weight on their shoulder, as if someone had gently tapped them. And one by one, they stood up, until everyone was standing. Keillor says, “It was a stunning moment.” Opening their eyes and looking around at one another, they were all amazed. And the thing was, they did feel blessed. They felt that they had been touched by God.  Keillor uses satire to get us to drop our guard, to show us that things we are accustomed to, things we think we have grown out of, even things we make fun of---all can be bearers of the presence of God in this world. It can happen anywhere: in small towns, in congregations of Norwegian farmers; or here, in our congregation, with all our endearing idiosyncrasies. The Spirit is present and can touch us, if we let it. And like the first disciples on Pentecost, we are blessed.  I love the term, “gospel parakeets.” In fact, there are lots of wonderful names for groups of birds: did you know that? A flock of rooks is called “a parliament.” There is “a conspiracy of ravens,” “a pandemonium of parrots,” and “an ostentation of peacocks.” Writers and birders speak of “a murder of crows,” “a lamentation of swans,” and “a scold of jays.” A group of vultures gathering round is called “a wake.” A group of hummingbirds is called “a charm”---I love that one. “A charm of hummingbirds.”  Then there is “a chime of wrens,” “a prayer of godwits,” and “an exaltation of larks.” That’s perfect, isn’t it? I recently was in a coulee in eastern Washington where there seemed to be a meadowlark on every bush, throwing back its head and singing its heart out. The canyon’s rock walls---columnar basalt that looked like giant organ pipes---echoed and magnified the sound into a symphony of birdsong. It truly was “an exaltation of larks”!  And then there’s the one that seems just right for today: “a murmuration of starlings.” Do you know the word, “murmuration”? It has two meanings. On one hand, it simply means the sound of murmuring---like in today’s story of Pentecost, when the disciples in the Upper Room spontaneously start speaking in many different languages. Their voices rise and swell in a “murmuration” of sound.  The other meaning of “murmuration” also echoes the story of Pentecost. A murmuration of starlings is the gathering of starlings into a breathtakingly well-coordinated aerial ballet. European Starlings are a non-native but extremely common species in North America. They’re sometimes called “junk birds,” meaning invasive pests that serve little purpose other than to dirty car windshields and destroy crops. But have you ever seen starlings mass over an open field, swirling and rising like swift black smoke?  Here is a short YouTube video of this phenomenon. It was recorded by kayakers on the River Shannon, in Ireland.  [Show video at https://vimeo.com/31158841. 2 min: 3seconds]   Beautiful, isn’t it? The commonest of birds, each individual a nondescript speckled black, first “congregate” in an open space. Such “congregations” can be seen wherever there is open agricultural land, like up in the Skagit Valley. And I am grateful, this morning, to my friend and birding companion, Sally Balmer---who lives in Anacortes---for making the connection between Pentecost and a murmuration of starlings.  From their congregations in an open field, the starlings rise in flight. They start out in the groups they’ve been feeding with all day, and slowly merge into bigger and denser flocks until they form an undulating mass of 10,000 birds or more. In the southwest of Denmark, murmurations of starlings in spring can number more than a million birds! Locals speak of their late-afternoon displays as “black sun,” because they literally darken the sky.  It’s an amazing sight. Once formed, a murmuration of starlings---as the poet Richard Wilbur writes---rolls “like a drunken fingerprint across the sky.”ii Winging at speeds of up to 40 miles per hour, thousands of birds make hairpin turns that appear, to the unaided eye, to be done entirely in unison. It’s a wonderful metaphor for the formation of the church on Pentecost. Individuals, but moving as a single entity. And behaving together in a way that should be…impossible.  The space between individual birds in a murmuration may be only a bit more than their body length. Imagine doing such unrehearsed maneuvers on a freeway, making sharp turns in concert with all the other fast-moving drivers around you, only a car-length apart----and you get an idea of the difficulty involved. How do they do it?iii  The ancient Romans believed that this “movement as one,” witnessed in starlings, was from the gods, hinting at their intentions. Early 20th Century scientists theorized that there was a “natural telepathy,” a “group soul” of some kind. In the 1970’s, a biologist proposed that starlings have some kind of “biological radio.”  It’s easy to understand how one starling knows to turn when its neighbor turns, since they are close together and can see each other. Using high-speed photography, researchers have recently determined that individual starlings in large flocks coordinate their movements with their seven nearest neighbors. Of course, I think: “ChristCare groups!”  And there is no single leader. A move, initiated by this starling or that, ripples through the group like “the wave” in a stadium crowd. Which allows for variation, beauty, and surprise. The church, too, at its best, is not a top-down organization, but a grassroots movement.  Using computer simulations, researchers have also determined that there three simple “rules” guiding individual starlings: 1) Avoid colliding with your immediate neighbors; 2) Be generally attracted to others of your kind; and 3) Move in the same direction. It’s an organic synchronicity---repeatedly compacting and expanding---music ministry, children’s ministries, care teams, food bank, youth ministry, tutoring, public witness---individuals and small groups avoiding major collisions, coalescing through shared interests and concerns, and all moving in the same direction… i Thanks to Mark Trotter for pointing out the connection between Keillor’s story and Pentecost. “Gospel Birds” can be heard on-line at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xluxFQh7sIo. ii From “An Event,” by Richard Wilbur. iii See the article entitled “Flight Plan” by Peter Frederici in the March-April issue of Audubon magazine, which got me interested in the group behavior of birds. What scientists still don’t understand, however, is how starlings achieve such remarkable fluidity of motion. When one bird changes direction or speed, each of the other birds responds to the change almost simultaneously. This is true even in gigantic flocks. It’s as if they are all tuned in to some invisible network. It remains a mystery, researchers say.  We might speak of Mystery with a capital M. And note that only from a great distance, a perspective far beyond that of any one starling or group of starlings, can it be seen what starlings---I mean, Christians---are doing together and apart, here and all over the world. We are forming the most magnificent Design: a graceful, wild and swirling dance.  One last connection. Physicists are now telling us that murmurations of birds are similar to other systems in nature like crystals forming, metals becoming magnetized, and liquids turning to gases. Such systems are said to be “on the edge,” which means they’re ready to be completely transformed in an instant. Like those disciples in the Upper Room, gathered and waiting for what would happen next. And like the Lutherans in Lake Woebegone, eyes closed and heads bowed.  Ready for a touch from God. Expecting to be blessed.  Shall we join them?  Amen.                   