“Wider Still” a sermon preached at EUMC Communion 6-7-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Acts 10:9-17 & Ephesians 3:14-21  Two weeks ago we celebrated Pentecost, and the events recorded in the Book of Acts, Chapter 2. On Pentecost, you remember, the Spirit of God moved among the disciples in a powerful way. It was like electricity leaping from one to another, and over-leaping all boundaries of race, language, and creed. The Christian church was born in that outpouring of the Holy Spirit.  In our text for today, the story continues. A few years have now passed since that first Pentecost. The early church, which had its origins in Jerusalem, is spreading out into the Greco-Roman world. So far, however, the church has been made up exclusively of Jews. Like Jesus and his first disciples, they keep all the Jewish laws, including those that declare certain foods clean and others unclean. These Jewish Christians are proclaiming that Jesus, a Jewish rabbi, is the Messiah that was promised in their Hebrew scriptures.  But now, as the gospel spreads, people from various non-Jewish backgrounds---that is to say, Gentiles---are showing interest in this new religious movement. Some of these Gentiles even want to become disciples of Jesus. But they aren’t interested in adopting all the Jewish laws and customs, and abandoning their own. Keeping Jewish dietary laws, for instance, doesn’t make much sense to them. And male circumcision? Seems pretty drastic. Do Gentiles really have to become Jewish in order to be baptized as followers of Jesus? This question is percolating within the church as our story begins.  Now here’s the more immediate context. In the passage just preceding our text, a Gentile named Cornelius is introduced. We’re told that Cornelius is a centurion, which means that he is an officer in the Roman army. He lives with his family in Caesarea, an assignment that suggests that he was being rewarded for exceptional loyalty and service. Cornelius is respected by the Jews because he’s a man of prayer, and he gives generously to the poor. But he is still a Gentile, and so outside the circle of God’s chosen people.  One afternoon, as Cornelius is praying, he receives a word from God. He is told to send a group of emissaries to Joppa, a village on the coast. There they are to go to the home of a tanner named Simon, where a guest named Peter is staying. We who are reading along in Acts know that this is none other than the apostle Peter, of whom Jesus said, “Upon this rock I will build my church.”  Which brings us to our verses for today. The scene now shifts to the home of Simon the tanner. Peter, one of the original twelve disciples and now leader of the mother church in Jerusalem, is visiting there. He goes up to the flat roof of the house, where the ocean breeze provides some relief from the heat of the day, and where he can find privacy in which to pray. We are told that he’s also hungry, and that below him in the house, servants are busy preparing the noon meal.  As Peter prays on the rooftop, with the smells of cooking wafting up from below, he falls into a kind of trance. A vision unfolds before him, in which the heavens open and a giant sheet descends. The sheet seems to morph into a tablecloth, however, or a picnic blanket, because the next thing Peter sees is that this gigantic cloth contains all sorts of animals, as our text says: “wild beasts, creeping things, and birds of the air.”  Then Peter hears a voice saying, “Rise, Peter; kill and eat.” He is hungry. But the cloth contains some animals that Jews are not permitted to consume, based on the food laws in Leviticus and Deuteronomy. Peter is a devout Jew! His strict orthodox upbringing, and the laws and norms of his religious community, have shaped him deeply. In revulsion, he cries, “Not so, Lord! For I have never eaten anything that is common or unclean.” The voice speaks again, saying, “What God has called clean, you must not call common.” And then, to be sure Peter gets it, the vision is repeated two more times.  The next line says that Peter “wondered within himself what this vision meant.” The Greek word here is a double compound, meaning that he replayed this strange revelation in his mind, over and over, trying to discern what it might be about. Just as he starts down the ladder from the rooftop, there comes a knock at the door of the house. The emissaries of Cornelius, the Roman centurion, the Gentile seeking to know more about Jesus Christ, are literally on the doorstep, asking for Peter.  We are then told that “Peter invited them in and lodged them.” Jews were not to socially interact with Gentiles, who were considered unclean. It was unthinkable than an orthodox Jew like Peter would invite non-Jews into the house, sit down with them, and share a meal! But because of that vision, he does. The next day Peter accompanies these emissaries back to Caesarea, and preaches the gospel to Cornelius and his household. Cornelius becomes the first non-Jewish Christian recorded in the Bible.  In other words, the Holy Spirit---the same Spirit that moved on Pentecost---has moved again. And once again, it has overleaped the human constructs of social boundaries: “What God has called clean, you must not call common.” In reality, the universal embrace of God’s love had been promised to Peter’s ancestor Abraham, and in other Hebrew scripture as well, long before his rooftop vision. But by the time in which Peter lived, as happens again and again in history, his religious group had narrowed that message into a promise of salvation that was just for them.  So the Spirit broke through to Peter, asking him to open his heart, his mind, and his doors wider. To stretch in the direction of generosity and grace, even to overleap the barrier-setting rules of his community of faith. Because Peter obeyed, Christianity would grow from a tiny sect within Judaism---a sect which, historically, died out---into a world religion. The gospel of God’s love, revealed in Jesus, was not exclusively for the Jews, but for all people! Because of Peter’s vision, you and I, Gentile Christians, are included in the church today.  I know a man who reminds me of Peter in this passage. I met him in 1986, when I was fresh out of seminary and received my first appointment as a pastor. I was sent to serve Wallingford United Methodist Church in Seattle. When I arrived, one of the first to greet me was the Lay Leader of the congregation, a man named Cecil Taylor. Cecil had been a working man, like Peter. Now retired, he was still physically strong, with a thick barrel of a chest, and ramrod-straight posture. While most members of the Wallingford congregation were more artistic, educated, granola types in blue jeans and Birkenstocks, Cecil had tattoos on his arms from his days in the merchant marine, wore his silver hair cut short, and smoked a pack of cigarettes a day.  At some point in mid-life, Cecil had heard an evangelist speak, and dedicated his life to Jesus Christ. Later he’d read a book that affected him profoundly. Written by Paul Tournier, it was called The Meaning of Persons. The gist of the book was that beneath our many layers of socially-conferred roles and identities, all of us are beloved children of God. On the strength of his faith and character, Cecil was the respected Lay Leader of the Wallingford congregation. He was the spiritual father of his church. Like Peter.  When I arrived as the new pastor, I was told that the church had recently voted to become what’s called a Reconciling Congregation. That is, it had taken a stand to affirm the sacred worth and dignity of all people, including gay and lesbian Christians, and to publicly and unequivocally welcome them into the full life and ministry of the church. This was back in the 1980’s, remember. Wallingford was one of the first United Methodist congregations in the country to take this stand.  Here’s how it happened, as it was told to me. It was at a regular meeting of the Church Council, the elected leaders of the congregation. One of the Council members began by explaining that the General Conference of our denomination had recently come out with an official statement on homosexuality---we had never had one before that. The statement declared that homosexuality is “incompatible with Christian teaching.”  Then that same member came out, to his friends around the table, as a gay man. Do you still love and accept me as your brother in Christ? he asked. Or do I have to become like you in order to be recognized as a follower of Jesus? If I am your brother in Christ, he said, will you vote to make that official, by becoming a Reconciling Congregation?  Well, you can imagine the discussion around that table. There was dismay, love, and fear. There were theological questions and practical considerations. If we make this choice, someone said, we will lose members and money. If we don’t, someone else said, what is the difference between this and any social club? Many of you here will be familiar with this sort of discussion. You grappled with some of the same issues here in this congregation, ten years or so ago, when the man who was your beloved Music Director at that time came out as gay, and you made the costly decision to stand by him.  At Wallingford, after a couple of hours of this discussion, which was now going in circles, Cecil Taylor cleared his throat. This would be like what happens here in church meetings when Floyd Barker prepares to speak. Cecil had been quiet up to this point, but now he spoke. “You know,” he said, “I don’t know what homosexuality is. I don’t know if it’s a sin or a choice or a disease or just one of the variations that people come in. I don’t know about that. All I know is that Jesus said to love our neighbors, and he didn’t say which kind of neighbors. Just, ‘love your neighbor.’ So: I think we should do it.” That moment was like Pentecost, like electricity leaping from one person to another around the circle. It was like the apostle Peter deciding to welcome Gentiles into the house, and sitting down to eat with them, because he had received a vision that beneath our many layers of socially-conferred roles and identities, all of us are beloved children of God. The Council voted; the motion passed. Later, looking back, Council members told me that it was an experience of the Holy Spirit, asking them to open their hearts, their minds, and their doors wider still.  On Tuesday of this past week, our own Church Council here in this congregation made the same decision, and by unanimous vote. Our church will soon be joining what is now a network of over 650 Reconciling Congregations, and our own Pacific Northwest Annual Conference, and the entire Western Jurisdiction of the United Methodist Church, in affirming the sacred worth of all persons, and officially welcoming lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning Christians into the full life and ministry of our congregation.  I tell you, these are exhilarating times! Now we are being asked to stretch in the direction of generosity and grace, even to overleap the barrier-setting rules of our General Conference, for the sake of greater faithfulness to the gospel of God’s love for all people, revealed in Jesus Christ. I believe that the decision we are making now will be confirmed by the church of the future. The church is changing. The Spirit is moving…among us!  Thanks be to God.  Amen.     