“Sabbath Time” a sermon preached at EUMC 6-28-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Ex. 20:8-11 & Mark 6:30-34  Some time ago, I walked into my office and discovered a book lying on the desk. It was a gift from a member of the congregation, who had seen the authors in an interview on television. There was a message attached: “Kathlyn, I think you will like this book!”  I always appreciate it when you all route books and articles my way. It makes sermon preparation into a communal enterprise. So I read the book, and I want to commend it to you this morning. It’s called The Power of Full Engagement, by Jim Loehr and Tony Schwartz.  The book is really a management book, in the same genre as Stephen Covey’s The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People. Like Covey’s book, it also has religious undertones and implications. The basic idea behind The Power of Full Engagement is that managing energy, rather than time, is the key to high performance and personal renewal.  One of the main points in the book is that if you want to maximize your positive energy in life, you have to alternate periods of activity with periods of rest.  Take physical energy, for instance. Athletes know---I am told---that if you want to build your physical capacity, you have to train by pushing yourself beyond your normal comfort zone and then backing off, allowing your body time to recover. Your muscles need 24-48 hours to be replenished, grow stronger, and become better able to handle the next challenge.  But you need this rhythm---both the systematic pushing, and the recovery time---in order to build physical capacity. If you push too hard for too long, stressing beyond ordinary limits without letting up, you will actually break down your muscles and your body’s ability to perform. If you never push at all, your muscles will atrophy and your physical capacity will likewise be diminished. In order to build physical strength and endurance, you need repeated oscillation between activity and rest. Listen to this passage from the book:  Nearly every athlete we have worked with has come to us with performance problems that could be traced to an imbalance between the expenditure and recovery of energy. They were either over-training or under-training…Both over- and under-training have performance consequences that include persistent injuries and sickness, anxiety, negativity and anger, difficulty concentrating, and loss of passion. We achieved our breakthroughs with athletes by helping them to more skillfully manage energy—pushing themselves to systematically increase capacity, but also building in regular recovery as part of their training regimens.  The authors continue:  When we expend energy, we draw down our reservoir. When we recover energy, we fill it back up. …Full engagement requires cultivating a dynamic balance between the expenditure of energy and the renewal of energy in all dimensions. We call this rhythmic wave oscillation, and it represents the fundamental pulse of life.i  Balancing stress and recovery time is critical not just in sports, but in all facets of life. If we want to maximize our mental capacity, for instance, we need to oscillate between periods of mental stretching---through concentrated study, perhaps---and periods of mental rest. How many older adults do you know who do crossword puzzles or Luminosity drills on the computer for just this reason: to keep their minds active and alert? Artists and scientists testify that creativity demands both periods of focused concentration and periods of mental disengagement. Albert Einstein said that his best ideas came to him while he was shaving in the morning.  Emotionally, too, we grow through this same pattern of oscillation. If you want to build capacity for emotional depth and resilience, you need to push beyond your normal limits by actively engaging with other people, and with your own feelings. But no one can sustain intensity of emotion all the time without going numb or burning out. So periodically you need to back off, disengage, and give yourself an emotional rest.  What about the spiritual dimension of life? Does the same principle apply? In our first reading for this morning, the 4th of the 10 Commandments is given: to keep the Sabbath, to work productively for six days each week, and to honor the seventh as a day of rest. The word “Sabbath” comes from the Hebrew verb shabbat, which means, “to rest.” One of the earliest teachings in the Bible, then, specifies that for our spiritual strength and endurance, we are to adopt a life pattern of oscillation between engagement and disengagement. We are to alternate between activity and rest, work and Sabbath time.  My favorite story about the importance of Sabbath time is a true story. It involves a wagon train that traveled from St. Louis to Oregon in the 1800’s. The wagon train’s members were devout Christians, so the group made a practice of stopping every Sunday to observe a day of rest.  Winter was approaching quickly, however, and some members of the group began to panic in fear that they wouldn’t reach their destination before the heavy snows. Consequently, several members proposed to the others that they should quit their practice of stopping on the Sabbath and continue driving onward seven days a week.  This proposal triggered great contention in the community. Finally it was suggested that the wagon train should split up into two groups---those who wanted to observe the Sabbath and those who wanted to travel on that day. The proposal was accepted. Both groups traveled together until the next Sunday, when one group went on while the other remained at rest.  Guess which group got to Oregon first.ii  You’re right. The ones who kept the 4th Commandment reached their destination first. Both the horses and the people were so rested by their Sabbath observance that they could travel more vigorously and effectively the other six days of the week.  This pattern, or principle, occurs again and again in the Bible. When Moses becomes weary of leading his people through their trials in the desert, God tells him, “My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest.” To the prophet Isaiah, God says: “In returning and rest you shall find salvation; in quietness and trust you shall find your strength.” In our gospel reading for today, in the midst of unrelenting activity, Jesus instructs his disciples: “Come away by yourselves to a deserted place, and rest awhile.”  When we think of Jesus as portrayed in the gospels, we often picture him teaching, preaching to the multitudes, and attending to the crowds who sought his healing touch. We might not notice that in those same gospel accounts, Jesus often sends people away, with neither explanation nor excuse. He simply stops, retires to a quiet place---alone, or with his friends---and prays. It’s interesting to note, in fact, that one translation of the biblical verb “to pray” is “to come to rest.”  The biblical assumption is that when we pray, at least three things happen:  First, we withdraw. We pull away from the activities and demands of the world, from the scramble of panting feverishnessiii that describes too much of our lives. We don’t wait until someone gives us permission or until all our work is completed. In fact, for the sake of our productivity and effectiveness, we oscillate away from work, and leave it for a time.  Second, we allow our souls to quiet down. There is no more profound “rest” in this world than the peace of communing with God. Consciously bringing our lives into God’s presence, we remember that God is God, and that---thankfully---we are not. We can let go of being driven by the clock or the dollar or our own inflated sense of self-importance. And we can remember that, as Rabbi Abraham Heschel puts it: “just to be is a blessing; just to live is holy.”  Finally, we open ourselves to God’s guidance. Sabbath time allows the reality of God to stand in the midst of our lives, and become the calm center out of which we live. When we return to the demands of our busy workday lives, and when we are rocked by events as diverse as murder in a Charleston church, the release of a papal encyclical on climate change, and a decision by the Supreme Court on marriage rights---we know who—and Whose---we are. We are able to respond from a deep place of clarity, and passionate commitment to the world God loves.  Maya Angelou, the beloved poet and playwright, speaks to the importance of Sabbath time—and how it enables full engagement with life---in a reflection called, “A Day Away.” She writes:  Each person deserves a day away in which no problems are confronted, no solutions searched for. …If we step away for a time, we are not, as some will accuse, being irresponsible, but rather we are preparing ourselves to more ably perform our duties and discharge our obligations. When I return home after such time, I’m always surprised to find that some questions I sought to evade have been answered, and some entanglements I’d hoped to flee have sorted themselves out. A day away is like a spring tonic. It can dispel rancor, transform indecision, and renew the spirit.iv  Well, what about your life? Do you have a healthy rhythm of alternating activity and rest, work and worship? Or does your pattern need some adjusting in one direction or the other? Can you hear, in the 4th Commandment and in Jesus’ words, an invitation to both inner peace and outer effectiveness? “Remember the Sabbath day, and keep it holy.” “Come away by yourselves to a deserted place, and rest awhile.” Amen.  i From Jim Loehr & Tony Schwartz, The Power of Full Engagement (New York: Free Press, 2003) p. 29 ii Thanks to Marva Dawn, in Keeping the Sabbath Wholly (Grand Rapids, Michigan: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.,1989) p. 65, for this story. iii Thomas Kelly, A Testament of Devotion (New York: Harper & Row, 1941) speaks of today’s pace as an “intolerable scramble of panting feverishness.” p. 45 iv This quote from Maya Angelou was given to me by a friend; I do not know its original source. 