“A Time to Be Born, a Time to Die” For Everything a Season I EUMC 7-12-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Ecclesiastes 3:1-13 & Psalm 90:1-6, 9b-10, 12  Erma Bombeck, the beloved columnist, wrote a book called, If Life Is a Bowl of Cherries, What Am I Doing in the Pits?i In it she describes a moment when she realized she was aging. She was driving the car, with her mother beside her in the passenger seat. Her mother had always been strong and independent. In recent years, however---although Erma resisted seeing it---Mom had been changing. She was slowing down. When they went somewhere together in the car, she had begun asking Erma to drive.  Now they were driving along in heavy traffic, and suddenly an emergency occurred up ahead. Erma slammed on the brakes. Instinctively she threw out her right arm, to protect her mother from hitting the windshield.  When the crisis had passed, the two women sat blinking at each other. In that moment, each realized that something had changed in their relationship. In prior years, Mom would have attempted to protect Erma. Erma writes, “When did it happen? When did it happen that the mother became the daughter, and the daughter became the mother?”  When does it happen? It may happen almost imperceptibly, or it may crystallize in one moment like that: the realization that time is passing, and you are no longer young. On the day your teenage son beats you in tennis for the first time, say. Or the day the salesgirl in the store calls you “ma’am” instead of “miss.” Or the day you go to the dermatologist about some strange-looking spots on your skin and he says breezily, “Oh, those are nothing to worry about; these things just appear as we get older. I like to call them barnacles.”  Charles Simmons, the writer, says that it hit him one day when a young woman stopped him on the street and asked for directions. He realized, in the course of their short conversation, that the girl had selected him not because he was attractive and approachable, but because she perceived him as older, fatherly, and therefore, “safe.” She never even saw him as an available male; he had been “screened out” as a sexual person. Simmons went home and examined his receding hairline in the mirror.  Sometimes the awareness of time passing comes with a terrible shock. You get a call in the night: one of your parents has had a stroke. Or one of your best friends---someone your own age!---has a heart attack. You’re shaken. And it hits you again that time is passing; you are growing older, and so is everyone you know.  Gradually or suddenly, and most commonly in mid-life, we come face to face with this reality: that our mortal lives have a beginning and an end, like a sentence enclosed between two brackets. Life is a journey between these two fixed poles, and every one of us---wherever our age---is moving from one toward the other, from birth toward death. As our text for this morning expresses it: “To everything there is a season, and a time for every purpose under heaven: a time to be born, and a time to die.” Today we begin a sermon series on Chapter 3 of the Book of Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes is one of the five books of the Bible that are classified as “wisdom literature.” From a biblical point of view, wisdom begins with the awareness that life is a journey from birth to death. Whatever meaning there is to be found in life, therefore, must be located within these God-given parameters.  Everything else that Ecclesiastes has to say will flow from this opening line: “To everything there is a season…a time to be born, and a time to die.” So let me introduce our series, this morning, by giving you an overview of the Book of Ecclesiastes, which takes the form an extended meditation on this theme.ii  We don’t know much about the person who wrote this book of the Bible, or exactly when he lived. His name, Ecclesiastes, is obscure, and doesn’t appear in any other ancient manuscripts. Grammatically, it means something like “the one who convenes an assembly,” which suggests that he was probably a teacher of some sort.  A Jewish tradition claims that King Solomon was the author of Ecclesiastes: that when he was young and in love, he wrote the Song of Songs; when he matured, he wrote the Book of Proverbs; and when he grew older, he looked back over his life and wrote down his reflections, called the Book of Ecclesiastes. Whether Solomon actually wrote the book or not, it seems clear, at least, that the man we know as Ecclesiastes was in his later years, acutely aware that he was aging, and trying to deal with his fear of growing old and dying without having truly lived. He has tried several ways of coping with this fear. He writes to tell us what he’s learned.  First, Ecclesiastes says, he did what many bright young people do, or at least what they are taught to do: he set out to be successful, and make a lot of money. And he did that. He writes, “I multiplied my possessions. I built myself houses and planted vineyards… I gathered for myself silver and gold.”  But, Ecclesiastes says, I couldn’t escape this nagging feeling that something was missing. I’d achieved success, but I lay awake at night and wondered, “Wasn’t life supposed to be about more than this?” Besides, he says, I realized that I could lose my money, or I could die, and have to leave it all behind. He writes, “There is an evil I have observed under the sun, that God sometimes grants a person property and wealth, so that there is no want for anything, but God does not permit that person to enjoy it.” Disaster can strike at any time, and death comes to everyone, both rich and poor.  So Ecclesiastes contemplates his own mortality. Time is passing; he is aging. He then follows a pattern you may recognize: he makes a wild effort to recapture his lost youth. Like the middle-aged man who leaves his wife for a younger woman or buys a sports car to make himself feel young again, Ecclesiastes explains, “I said to myself, Come, I will treat you to merriment. I ventured to tempt my flesh with wine, I withheld from my eyes nothing they asked for.” But one morning he wakes up next to someone who, he realizes, looks a lot like his daughter …or he injures himself trying some athletic feat of his youth…or he’s up half the night with indigestion after a rich meal…and finally he writes, “This, too, I found was futile. Of revelry, I said, what good is it?”  Now a sense of urgency creeps into Ecclesiastes’ writing. He has begun to fear that the good times are behind him, that most of the good things that will ever happen to him have already happened. It occurs to him that he might come to the end of his life without ever knowing what his life was for. So he leaves his manic pleasure-seeking behind, and tries to make sense of his life through learning.  Somewhere, in all the books written by the wisest people of the past, there must be an answer to his quest for meaning. Ecclesiastes sets out to test the Jewish proverb, “A wise person has eyes in his head, but the fool walks in darkness.” But as he studies, what Ecclesiastes learns, to his dismay, is that even if the wise person does see more clearly, what he or she sees is…the futility of life! The wiser people become, the more aware they are of life’s tragedies and injustices. Their illusions drop away; they can’t help but see that violence and stupidity often do hold sway in this world.  Besides, Ecclesiastes is now old enough that the shadow of death, looming ahead, is threatening to rob everything of meaning. He sees his teachers growing old, their brilliance fading into cranky forgetfulness. He writes, “What good is it, if I am wise and my neighbor is foolish?” We’re both going to die in any case, and our learning will perish with us.  All of which brings Ecclesiastes to his famous conclusion: “Vanity of vanities, all is vanity.” Neither wealth, nor compulsive pleasure-seeking, nor even learning will answer his burning question, “What is the point of it all?”  But the book of Ecclesiastes was not included in the Bible to persuade us that, in fact, life is pointless. Ultimately, Ecclesiastes finds an answer. Now he shares it in these words:  Go, eat your bread in gladness, and drink your wine in joy, for your action was long ago approved by God. Let your clothes always be freshly washed and your head never lack ointment. Enjoy happiness with the one you love all the fleeting days of life that have been granted to you under the sun. Whatever it is in your power to do, do with all your might. For there is no doing, no learning, no wisdom in the grave where you are going.  What is Ecclesiastes saying here? Is he reduced to saying, “Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die?” No. Listen again to the beautiful simplicity of each line of his advice:  “Go, eat your bread in gladness, and drink your wine in joy.” That is to say: I have learned that life is not all about achieving success, or acquiring anything. Life is about enjoying a meal and lifting a glass with a friend. By the time you reach my age, you can’t escape the knowledge that there are losses in life. Let them teach you to savor the gifts of the present moment, and to feel intense gratitude for the gift that your life is right now. When was the last time you truly savored the sweetness of a peach? How often do you engage in activities not as a means to some other end but for their own sake: a romp with the dog, a lively conversation, a good laugh?  “…for your action was long ago approved by God.” That is: there’s no need to keep trying so hard to be somebody or do something “good enough” to justify your own existence. You are good enough; your life has intrinsic, sacred worth. God approves of you, and always has, entirely apart from anything you earn or accomplish. Trust that. Rest in it. Go deeper spiritually, and discover the unspeakable sweetness of communing with God.  “Let your clothes always be freshly washed and your head never lack ointment.” That is, honor your body. (Some of us are still working on this one!) Take care of yourself: eat right, exercise, enjoy the physical comforts of a hot shower and clean clothes. Don’t abuse or denigrate your body; make peace with it. Are you over the age of forty? It’s time to finally accept and approve of your physical self: what, are you going to reach the age of eighty and still be saying, “I hate my nose”?  “Enjoy happiness with the one you love all the fleeting days of life that have been granted to you under the sun.” That is, life is short. It is too short to be filled with resentments, quarreling, and regrets. Give yourself to the one you love. Practice the habit of forgiveness. Love all the people you love as well as you can, for as long as you can. At the end of your life, this is what will have mattered most: your relationships, the love you have known and shared.  “Whatever it is in your power to do, do with all your might.” OK, so you can’t do everything, and there is much in life—more than you once thought---that is beyond your control. But look around and see what the world needs, and decide what you can do. You have gifts to give, and you are uniquely positioned to make a difference in someone’s life. Maybe many someones. Offer your gifts. Make your contribution.  “For there is no doing, no learning, no wisdom in the grave where you are going.” For in fact, the very thing that you fear and fight against---the transitory nature of life, its boundaries and limits---is what makes it so precious, so achingly dear. From birth to death---and beyond---we belong to God. We are in good hands. The writer Brenda Ueland, on her eightieth birthday, sent one line of advice to her children. So, she said: “While you are alive, be alive!”  This is the wisdom of Ecclesiastes. Amen.        i Erma Bombeck, If Life Is a Bowl of Cherries, What Am I Doing in the Pits? (New York: Random House, 1st ed. 1971) ii For a good book on Ecclesiastes, and one I read in preparation for this sermon, see Harold Kushner’s When All You Ever Wanted Isn’t Enough: the Search for a Life that Matters (New York: Simon & Schuster, 1986) 