“A Time to Break Down, a Time to Build Up” For Everything a Season II 7-19-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James at EUMC texts: Ecclesiastes 3:1-8 & Joshua 3:1-6 & 14-17  A couple of weeks ago, I was driving to church, coming around the top of Lake Washington on Bothell Way. It was a maddening experience: one construction zone after another! A flagger here, the road narrowed to one lane there; I thought I’d never get to work.  With the traffic crawling along, I found myself thinking, “Seems like there has been construction on this road every summer since I moved here! Can’t they just leave it alone for five minutes? This road was working fine for me the way it was. Do they really have to keep changing it?”  And then it occurred to me that this is how people sometimes feel about church, too. Do we really need that new flat screen TV with scrolling announcements out by the church office? Do we need to change the words of the old hymns to be more inclusive? Why should we take on this new mission, or that emerging social issue: can’t we just hold still for five minutes? The church was working fine for me the way it was. Do we really have to keep changing?”  Of course, then I had to laugh, since I know as well as you do that wherever there is life, there is change. I ask you: what is the only alternative to change? It’s death. The only things that never change are not alive.  There is a great example of that in the novel by Charles Dickens, Great Expectations. Do you remember the character, Miss Haversham? She was the woman who was deserted on her wedding day, and who spent the rest of her life sitting in the parlor with her wedding cake moldering away, and wearing her wedding dress, which was slowly turning to rags. Her non-acceptance of change was essentially a refusal to live. Living is a dynamic thing, always in process. Where there is no change, there is no life.  I saw a bumper sticker the other day. It said, “If you never change your mind, are you sure you still have one?” The implication, of course, is that when we are no longer willing or able to change, we have begun to die.  Last week we began this series on Ecclesiastes 3 by acknowledging the God-given boundaries of human life: “To everything there is a season, a time to be born, and a time to die.” That is, there is a beginning and an ending to our mortal lives. But between birth and death, there are countless other beginnings and endings, one opening into the other. The world turns; one season gives way to the next. And this is how life goes forward. From childhood through adulthood and into old age, all of us will have to negotiate the process of change, again and again, in order to live and grow.  If change is a given in life, and God’s way of moving life forward….and if the refusal to change is a choice to stagnate and die…then wisdom has something to do with embracing change. And wisdom has something to do with learning to navigate the processes of change with skill and grace. This is true for communities as well as individuals. Hence the line from the wisdom of Ecclesiastes to which we turn today: there is “a time to break down, and a time to build up.” A little over a hundred years ago, anthropologists began to study how humans have traditionally helped one another through the processes of change. It was a man named Arthur Van Gennep, studying traditional cultures around the world, who first coined the term, “rites of passage.”  Van Gennep noticed that there is a certain pattern by which traditional societies have always marked the major milestones---the big and predictable changes---in human life. He grouped together “rites of passage” dealing with birth, coming of age, marriage, and death. He saw that all these rituals had in common a pattern of three distinct phases. First, there is a leaving and letting go---a time of breaking down what is past; then a sort of neutral zone, a pause suspended between past and future; then finally comes the time to build up, a new beginning in which life goes forward.i  This pattern of breaking down, pausing, and building anew is found in all great religions. In the African societies that Van Gennep studied, adolescent youths break with the past by leaving their villages, go into the bush to wander for a time, and then return to be recognized as adult members of the tribe. In Jewish tradition, the same pattern is found in the story of the Exodus, in which the Hebrews leave their slavery in Egypt, wander in the wilderness for forty years, and then enter the Promised Land. Our second reading for this morning encapsulates this process of change: the people break camp on one side of the River Jordan, literally and physically cross over the riverbed, and emerge to build a new life on the other side.  In Christian tradition, it is no accident that Jesus leaves his life as a carpenter, goes into the wilderness for forty days, and then begins his ministry. The core story of our faith, the death and resurrection of Jesus, follows the same pattern. There is a definitive ending, three days in the tomb, then a whole new life. Or as the writer of Ecclesiastes puts it: a time to break down--- and---a time to build up. This is the pattern and promise of our faith.  Think of the major changes in your life so far. Can you trace this same pattern in your own times of transition?  First there is a breaking down, a dismantling, a break with the past. It may be gradual or it may happen suddenly, like falling off a cliff---a divorce, a job change, a move, a diagnosis that changes everything. It may be something you sought and worked for---this is the season of weddings and graduations---or something you never in your wildest dreams imagined would happen. In either case, it’s an ending. Life as you once knew it is over…and you can’t go back. This can be a time of shock and grief, as you try to process what has taken place.  For in fact, every life change---even those we welcome and celebrate---begins with an ending. I remember my first day in seminary, for instance. I was so glad and grateful to be there! But that night, I sat on the edge of the bed in that unfamiliar dorm room and cried. At the time, I couldn’t have told you why. But some part of me recognized that my life was changing. The roles and circumstances by which I had identified myself up to that point were being left behind.  Judith Viorst has written a beautiful book called Necessary Losses. About the breaking down that is part of every life transition, she writes: I’ve learned that in the course of our life we leave and let go of much that we love. Losing is the price we pay for living. It is also the source of much of our growth and gain. Making our way from birth to death, we also have to make our way through the pain of giving up…portions of what we cherish. We have to deal with our necessary losses. [She goes on:]  We should understand how these losses are linked to our gains. For in leaving the blurred- boundary bliss of mother-child oneness, we become a conscious, unique and separate self… and in giving up our impossible expectations, we become a lovingly connected self, renouncing ideal visions of perfect friendship, marriage, and family life for the sweet imperfections of all-too-human relationships….  In confronting the many losses that are brought by time and death, we become an adapting self, finding at every stage---until we draw our final breath---opportunities for creative transformations.ii  As people of faith, we trust that every ending contains the seeds of the new beginning. So we enter the second phase of change, that wilderness time in which you catch your breath and take your bearings. In this period, the “and” between breaking down and building up, you’re traveling without a map. Old rules no longer apply; old ways of doing things no longer work. What’s called for now is: courage. And patience, endurance, and willingness to live with ambiguity. This is a time of disorientation, but of freedom and creativity too.  This interim phase of change is often overlooked or undervalued. Others may be uncomfortable or distressed with what may look like lostness on your part. Subtly or overtly, they say, “Hurry up and get over it!” They may pressure you to “Change back to the way you were before!” But the traditional societies who sent their young people off on vision quests knew that this in-between time is to be honored for its own sake. It’s like the fallow season of winter: beneath the surface, things are happening. The same rhythm puts us to sleep at night and wakes us in the morning, after a dark time full of half-remembered and enigmatic clues.  How often have you heard people who are retiring from their working life say, “I’m not going to make any new commitments for awhile, or fill my schedule with the same kinds of things I’ve always done before. I’m going to let things settle, and then figure out what I really want to do.” Wise words, according to Ecclesiastes. This is a time for integration and readjustment. Give it time; don’t rush.  Which ushers us into the third phase of change, what Ecclesiastes calls “the time to build up.” In that fallow, germinating time, you’ve been forced to experiment, to try on new behaviors and roles. You’ve had to develop new rituals and routines. You’ve found ways to survive; you’ve found friends and resources. You look back and are amazed to see how far you have come. And now, on new terms and with new rules, the next chapter of your life begins.  Think of important beginnings in your own past. You bumped into an old friend that you hadn't seen for years, who told you about a job at his company that opened up just that morning. You met your spouse-to-be at a party that you really hadn't wanted to go to and almost skipped. You happened to pick up a book that totally changed your life because it was the only one lying on i For more on these stages, see William Bridges, Transitions: Making Sense of Life’s Changes (New York; Addison-Wesley Publishing Co., 1980) ii Judith Viorst in Necessary Losses: the Loves, Illusions, Dependencies, and Impossible Expectations that All of Us Have to Give Up in Order to Grow (New York: Fawcett Gold Medal, Ballantine Books, 1986) p. 366  your friend’s coffee table. The lesson in all such experiences is that when we are ready to make a new beginning, the opportunity comes.  Your task now, in this building-up phase, is to look for the gains on the other side of your losses. Look for signs of new life, wherever they may spring up. Tend to them, as you would green plants in the garden. Recognize that the seasons have turned: you don’t want to be like Miss Haversham, frozen in time. This may or may not be a change you wanted or the life you planned, but it is your life now. It will have its own gifts, as well as challenges. Take them on. Let yourself experience glimmers of hope, and moments of joy.  To everything there is a season: a time to break down---and---a time to build up. This basic pattern is so essential to God’s way of bringing about growth and renewal that we must learn to embrace it in our lives, and in each other’s lives, with skill and grace.  Think back to the last major change in your life. Isn’t it true that when we are in the midst of change, we are more alive than at any other time? In the midst of change, we are most full of what life is. We are called upon to see and hear in our lives what is most truly there, and to make choices; to come or go; to withhold or give ourselves; to refuse to feel, or to laugh and cry.  In the midst of change, we feel the meaning of our lives most intensely. We discover how much we need each other. We discover how much we need God. And if we are wise, we come to recognize that change, at every age and stage of life, is an opportunity to be blessed.  Amen.           