“A Time to Weep, a Time to Heal” For Everything a Season III EUMC 7-26-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Ecclesiastes 3:1-8 & Luke 13:31-35  What is the shortest sentence in the Bible? Do you know? It’s printed at the top of your worship guide this morning: “Jesus wept.” Jesus wept over the death of his friend, Lazarus. Our Bible describes Jesus as “a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief.”  Today’s reading from Luke’s gospel tells how Jesus was on his way into Jerusalem, where he would be arrested and crucified within the week. He stood on a hill overlooking the city and cried, “Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it! How often have I desired to gather your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not willing!”  Jesus wept over this wayward, wounded world. I ask you: what kind of person would he have been if he had not?  This morning, as we continue with our exploration of Ecclesiastes 3, we come to the words, “a time to weep, a time to heal.” This is one of the clearest truths in the whole passage. In the pain and sorrow that comes to each of our individual lives, and given all the suffering in this weary world, there is definitely a time for weeping.  Why do we human beings weep, anyway? And I am not referring now to the tears that spring to our eyes when we smash a finger with a hammer, say, or to the petulant tears we might cry in childish frustration at not getting our way. When we read that “Jesus wept” or when Ecclesiastes says “there is a time to weep,” what is meant is weeping in the sense of the dictionary definition, “to express grief, sorrow, or any overpowering emotion by shedding tears.”  There’s a connection between weeping and love. That is, we don’t weep about every little loss and minor disappointment we experience. We weep when something---or someone---we love is threatened or violated or taken from us. We weep because we are interconnected, and what connects us to one another also breaks our hearts.  We weep for the loss of the things that have brought us our greatest joy, which is how we discover, at some point in life, that tears of joy and tears of sorrow spring from the same well. That well is love: love for other people, for ourselves, for God, for life itself in this beautiful, broken world. In fact, weeping may be the best indicator of what life is really about for us. What we cry about, we care about.  If we don’t allow ourselves to weep, to face the pain that inevitably comes with caring about anything or anybody, we do so only at great cost. It’s not healthy to insist that our deep hurts, our appalling losses and great personal mistakes do not exist, or don’t matter. On the contrary: to weep tears of frustration and pain about such things may be to take our first steps toward honesty, toward mental health, toward claiming a life that is worth living.  Tears attune us to ourselves and to other people. If we don’t weep on the personal level, we will never understand the humanity around us. If we don’t weep on a public level, we are less than fully human ourselves. There are some things worth weeping about, lest we lose our own humanity. There are some things about which, if we do not weep, we betray the human race.  A reporter on national TV asks a young flier in the Persian Gulf, “How was your strafing run tonight?” “Fantastic!” the young man exclaims. “It was a turkey shoot! We blasted them as they ran!” It was nothing, in other words, to gun down other human beings who were running for their lives. It was done without a tear. “Jerusalem, Jerusalem,” says Jesus, “I have wept over you like a mother over her child.” In face of human callousness toward violence and death, Jesus wept.i  Ancient Christian teachers wrote of what they called “the gift of tears.” What they meant was the ability to feel sorrow for one’s sins, for one’s own participation in the pain of the world. To have “the gift of tears” is to have the heart to care about what we do to one another.  Have you seen the movie, Dead Man Walking? It’s based on the true story of a nun who, through a series of circumstances, becomes the spiritual advisor of a convicted criminal on death row. The nun is played by Susan Sarandon. The criminal, played by Sean Penn, is a fascinating character study.  I won’t ruin the movie for you, in case you haven’t seen it, by telling you the plot or what happens in the end. But let me tell you this. Throughout most of the movie, this convict displays no remorse for his part in the crime, and no feeling of empathy for either the victims or their families. Actually, he shows no signs of sadness even for himself.  But there comes a turning point in the movie. If you see it—and you can get it on Netflix--- watch for this. There comes a moment when, having been cared for and treated as a human being, rather than as an animal or a monster, by the nun, the convict breaks down. Or it might be more accurate to say: he breaks open. In a powerful scene, this seemingly heartless character breaks, and begins to shake with racking sobs. He weeps. For the first time, he expresses human feeling, even grief, for the persons he has harmed.  The weeping in that scene has something to do with becoming more fully human. It has something to do with finally connecting to other people in a meaningful way. It has something to do with healing. There is “a time to weep, and a time to heal.” As Ecclesiastes knows, there is a connection between the two. Becoming able to weep can be the first step in healing, the first sign that healing is taking place.  One of my friends and colleagues in ministry, Rebecca Parker, tells a story about a family in a congregation she served. Lyle and Maxine, elderly members of the church, were brother and sister. Maxine told Becky of how, at the end of World War II, Lyle had come home. The day he arrived---the only veteran to return alive to his small town---everyone came out to meet him. The train pulled into the station, the band played, and the mayor was there to shake his hand.  But as his sister Maxine explained, the man who climbed off the train was not the lively, cheerful boy who had left for war. He was a ghost. He didn’t seem to recognize anyone. In response to the crowd’s rousing welcome, he stared mutely. Blank. His family took him home to the farm, where he sat in the rocking chair in the parlor. He didn’t speak or move, and would barely eat. He continued in this state for days that spilled into weeks that flowed into months. No one in that town knew about post-traumatic shock; they only knew that Lyle’s soul was lost somewhere.  Lyle’s sister, Maxine, decided to stay with him. Whenever she could, she would come and sit with him, and she would talk. She’d tell him about the church potluck: who was there, what they ate, what each young woman wore. She’d tell him about the conversation she’d overheard at the store in town, and how high the crops had grown. She told him how the wind that day had blown the clean laundry into the tomatoes. When she ran out of things to say, she would just sit with him, snapping beans, mending socks. And he sat there, silent, like a stone. Rocking.  One night, while Maxine was knitting quietly beside him, Lyle’s eyes filled with tears. The tears spilled over and ran down his frozen face. Maxine went to her brother and put her arms around him. Held in his sister’s embrace, he began to cry full force, great sobs of anguish bursting forth from deep inside him.  Then Lyle began to talk, and would not stop. He talked of the cold, the fear, the noise, the death of his buddies, the long marches. And then of the human beings in the camps, the mass graves, the smell. He talked all night, until the dawn light began to creep across the fields. Maxine listened to everything that Lyle had to say. Then she went into the kitchen and cooked him breakfast. Brother and sister ate together, and then Lyle went out and did the morning chores.ii  Tears can release us from the past; what gushes out in a torrent of tears loses its power to control us. The un-grieved deaths of our lives can finally go to rest once the tears come. The memories of hurts and rejections grown larger through the years can shrink to size in the water of tears.  Here is a way that we, as a community, can participate in God’s way of bringing about healing. We can draw alongside each other, as Maxine did for her brother Lyle. We can set aside our own judgments and agendas and offer the gift of loving, listening attention. In so doing, we can create a safe space for tears to fall and truth to be told. We can hear each other’s stories of struggle and pain: every soul on earth is seeking to be known and understood. We can weep for each other. We can help each other heal.  And the miracle is: healing happens. As one of you said to me this week, “The best sign of God’s presence in the world is that healing can occur, and does occur. It’s God’s most powerful way of being in the world with us: taking a stand beside us, suffering with us, and healing us.” Or as the writer Oscar Wilde puts it: “Where there is sorrow, there is holy ground.”iii  When Jesus wept over Jerusalem, the die was cast. The same compassion that gave rise to his tears also propelled him down the hill, into the city, to do what was his to do to change the world. We go through a similar process. Pain is a challenge to change things. A longing to be fully human and to live without always having to shut down and close off when painful things come along…turns into a longing to be there for your friends when they are in trouble, and to be of real help to this poor, aching planet.  “There is a time to weep, and a time to heal.” Let us participate in the work of God. Amen. i Thanks for this story and related insights to Joan Chittister in For Everything a Season (Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 2013) p. 125 ii I heard Rebecca tell this story most recently at the United Methodist Clergywomen’s Consultation in Chicago, July 2006. It also appears in her book of essays, Blessing the World: What Can Save Us Now (Boston: Skinner House Books, 2006) pp. 138-9 iii Oscar Wilde, ed. Robert Ross, De Profundis (G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1909) p. 56 