“A Time to Mourn, a Time to Dance” For Everything a Season IV EUMC 8-2-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Ecclesiastes 3:1-8 & Isaiah 61:1-3  [An Introduction to the personal testimony to follow; time constraints with VBS singing & communion Sunday]  Have you ever been through a shattering loss? The loss of your health, perhaps, or a divorce, or the death of a loved one? Can you look back on that time, now, and remember how it was? Perhaps you were dazed with grief. You walked out of the hospital, or the courtroom, or the mortuary, or wherever you were when things fell apart.  And you discovered, to your surprise, that the world was still turning, as it has every day of your life. Clouds were moving across the sky. The grass was still a brilliant green. People were walking on the sidewalk, traffic whizzing by on the street. How was it possible? In spite of all that had happened, in spite of your broken heart, by some unseen and unimaginable power, life was going on.  Almost forty years ago, I lost the baby I was carrying---my first, and I was young, and not yet well-acquainted with grief. It was the capstone to what was, up to that point, the saddest year of my life. When I came home from the hospital, neighbors offered kind words of condolence---but as you know, most things that people say at such times, even if they are true, don’t really help.  There was one woman, however, who did say something that helped me. She was an older woman who had also lost a child. I knew she was a woman of faith, but she didn’t offer any religious platitudes. She just sat quietly on the couch, letting me be.  But finally she reached over, took my hand in hers, and said, “I know it’s hard to believe this….but a year from now, you won’t feel the way you do today. You will still grieve---you’ll love and remember your child as long as you live---but the quality of your grief will change, over time. One day, you’ll find yourself feeling happy again. You’ll see. Things will get better. Your life will go on.”  I wasn’t sure I did believe her, at that moment, but she had thrown me a lifeline. Words of wisdom, like prayer beads on a string. Something to hold onto, day by day and month by month of living it through, doing “the next indicated thing.” Meanwhile the world continued to turn.  The season of mourning took its course. And as spring follows winter, the day came when I was happy again. I began to learn, then, as most of us do---through life experience---the wisdom of Ecclesiastes: “To everything there is a season: a time to mourn, and a time to dance.”  Clichés are usually clichés because they express well-worn truth. “Time heals all wounds.” “This too shall pass.” There is a certain affront to it---the world continuing to turn, when our own world has collapsed---but also a promise, a hope. Life is going to go on, whether we can picture how or not, whether we will it or not. Even in the midst of despair, we find ourselves being sustained, our lives carried forward on unseen hands. Grace comes from places we didn’t expect; possibilities for growth arise even from the ashes of grief. One day we find ourselves laughing again, in spite of ourselves, and loving again, when we thought we never would. A new chapter opens. Life goes on.  Can we learn to trust that? Although Ecclesiastes never mentions the word God, that’s what he’s talking about: trusting God. I think of nature’s quiet determination to bring forth life from death, again and again, the persistence that is built right into God’s creation. I think of the Psalm printed at the top of your worship guide this morning: “Weeping may tarry for the night, but joy comes in the morning.” I think of Jesus promising that those who mourn will be blessed. I think of the central cycle of our Christian faith, the one we practice living through every year: the grief of Good Friday, the resurgence of new life on Easter.  Can we learn to face into seasons of mourning with faith that spring will come again, love will come again, and though we can’t imagine how right now, we will dance again? To live, therefore, with abiding hope? And then, when the season of dancing comes, to embrace it with gratitude and appreciation, and with full awareness that it, too, is a season that will come and go?  There is deep wisdom here, in the Book of Ecclesiastes. We hear an invitation to allow our mourning to become a place of healing, and our sadness a way through pain to dancing.  There are people, here in this room, who carry this wisdom and share it with us. I think, for instance, of one of you here who is going through a season of mourning. You shared with me a poem that illuminates where you are right now. The poem is called “Woman and Field”:  Mom, he says, it’s been raining and sunny, and do you think the morels are up yet? We go walking in the field where we’ve found them before, but they are not there.  How many times do I walk in my mind to the places I’ve found some sense of purpose or conviction, only to find them empty?  Finn finds a rabbit’s foot in the field, the leg bone still attached. It’s lucky, Mom, he says. We leave it where it is and let the luck follow us if it will.  And perhaps it does. Today, everywhere I turn in my mind I fail to find the answers I want. But what shows up is a softness, a fertile field in the unknown where I can rest. It feels rainy and sunny at the same time. I can almost feel something deep inside pushing its way up to the surface ready to be found in its own time.i i Thanks to Lynne Weakland for sharing this poem: “Woman and Field,” by Rosemerry Wahtola Trommer, May 3, 2005, found on A Hundred Falling Veils: A Daily Poetry Practice, on-line at http://ahundredfallingveils.com/2015/05/03/woman-and-field/  “To everything there is a season: a time to mourn, and a time to dance.” We can go through periods of mourning with acceptance and trust that life will go on, in its own time. Even now, at this very moment, the unquenchable power of God is at work to bring healing and wholeness, goodness and love, into your life and mine.  Listen now to two others in our midst, who can testify to the wisdom of Ecclesiastes.  [Bonnie & Hank speak]              