“A Time to Keep Silence, a Time to Speak” For Everything a Season V EUMC 8-9-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Ecclesiastes 3:1-8 & Ephesians 4:25-32  The Genesis story of creation begins in silence. The Spirit of God broods over the face of the deep. Then God speaks. You might almost say that at last God speaks. “Let there be light,” God says. According to Genesis, God breaks the cosmic silence with a creative word.  Then follows a rhythm of silence, speaking, silence, speaking. God speaks six times on six days, each followed by a night of silence. On the seventh day, God rests. Alternating silence and speech is the very rhythm of God, as old and deep in the nature of things as creation itself.i  Right from the start, then, the biblical assumption is that silence and speech naturally takes turns, back and forth. Which brings us to today’s line in the Book of Ecclesiastes. There’s a season for everything, Ecclesiastes has been telling us. There is a sacred rhythm by which life unfolds, including “a time to be silent, and a time to speak.”  Certainly there is a time to be silent. As Mark Twain once observed, “It’s better to remain silent and be thought a fool than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.” “Silence is golden,” it is said, and, “There is a reason God gave us two ears and only one mouth…” And yet there are also times for speaking up, and when keeping silent is unethical or cowardly. During World War II, Dietrich Bonhoeffer spoke out against the Nazi regime, saying, “Silence in the face of evil is itself evil.” During the civil rights movement, Martin Luther King, Jr., likewise said, “In the end we will remember not the words of our enemies but the silence of our friends.”  In the sacred rhythm of ongoing creation, when is it time to keep silent and when is it time to speak? According to Ecclesiastes, those who learn to make this distinction, and who are mindful in their practices of silence and speaking, are wise.  Now, as we consider today’s line from Ecclesiastes, some cautions are in order. There are rhythms of silence and speech, for instance, that don’t have to do with wisdom but with things like cultural norms and personal temperament.  Some years ago, I heard a memorable talk about cultural factors in communication. It took place at a gathering of the World Council of Churches, with attendees from around the globe. On the opening night, an Orthodox priest named Michael Oleksa gave us all a primer in cross-cultural communication. There are differences, he said, in the way cultures use rhythms of silence and speech, and what those rhythms are taken to mean.  For instance, he said, in some cultures people talk a lot, and loudly, and using lots of hand gestures. If you are a New Yorker of Italian descent, he said, you are probably used to people speaking in this way, and you probably associate rapid, forceful speech with intelligence and drive, while long silences may make you wonder if the other person is disengaged from the conversation, or perhaps slow-witted.  However, Father Oleksa went on, in the native villages of Alaska in which he lives and works, the exact opposite is true. In native communities, long pauses and slow, thoughtful, considered speech is a sign of wisdom, and anyone who speaks loudly and rapidly is thought to be not only rude, but a fool. What I remember most vividly is how Father Oleksa then acted out a mock conversation between a New Yorker and an Alaska native trying to dialogue about matters of faith at our gathering. It was hilarious! And painful. For lack of awareness of different cultural norms, both parties came away believing that the other was deficient in both intelligence and social grace.  Norms around speaking and silence vary from family to family, as well. In my family, for instance, interrupting each other is considered a form of solidarity. My brother and I once invented a game of finishing each other’s sentences, to see how in tune with each other we could be and how fast we could do it. If you want to be part of a dinner conversation in my family, you can’t wait for a pause in which to speak; you have to jump in and join the fray! I had to learn, as I grew up and sat at other dinner tables, that not every family works that way.  Not only are there varying rhythms of silence and speaking from culture to culture and family to family. Each one of us also has a natural temperament that makes us more comfortable with one rhythm or another. Have you read the bestselling book or heard the TED talks by a woman named Susan Cain, about introverts and extroverts? In a society that tends to overvalue rapid-fire speech and to distrust or dislike periods of silence, she made a splash with the book title Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World that Can’t Stop Talking.ii  The wisdom of Ecclesiastes, in this pluralistic age, includes awareness of different rhythms, and taking them into account in our human situations and judgments of others. But in whatever context of communication we find ourselves, we could all become wiser. When it comes to discernment about “a time to keep silence, and a time to speak,” what do you notice in the wisest people you know?  Let me lift up three qualities that I notice. See what you think. The first is this: wise people imitate God by not talking all the time. And, like Ecclesiastes, they put “the time to keep silence” first. In that silence, wise ones listen. They seek to understand, before seeking to be understood. They listen with full attention, without mentally formulating what they’re going to say next, and without checking their cell phone or iPad every three minutes.  Now there are people who need to talk more than they do; they need to understand that communication goes two ways. You speak, I speak, you speak, I speak; we go back and forth. If you just sit there and don’t participate, there can be no life-giving rhythm of alternating silence and speech. But most of us could probably stand to speak less and listen more. What was that nursery rhyme we learned in school? “A wise old owl lived in an oak. The more he lived, the less he spoke. The less he spoke, the more he heard. Now wasn’t he a wise old bird?”  What do we hear if we pipe down for a while? We hear the voices of others---not just their words, but their voices: the quaver of insecurity in a loud, demanding voice, the strength in a quiet voice. We hear nuances, and silences between the words. We notice body language: I read somewhere that 80% of communication is actually conveyed nonverbally.  So wise people begin with silence. Here’s a second thing. I’m sure you’ve noticed this, too. When they do speak, those who are wise choose their words carefully. Whether they talk a lot or a little, quickly or slowly, they exercise what the Bible calls “the discipline of the tongue.” We might call it “applying a filter.” Basically it means pausing before saying, “That’s the dumbest idea I’ve ever heard,” and saying instead, “Maybe there’s another way to think about this.” Some of you may belong to the Rotary Club. Rotarians have a famous “four-way test” to apply before speaking. You ask: Is it the truth? Is it fair to all concerned? Will it build goodwill and better friendships? And: Will it be beneficial to all concerned? A similar test is to ask yourself: Is it true? Is it kind? And: Is it necessary?  Just think of all the hard feelings and negative energy around us that could be eliminated by these filters! They sound like our second reading for today, from Ephesians: “Let no evil talk come out of your mouths, but only what is useful for building up, as there is need, so that your words may give grace to those who hear.”  I thought about that this week during the televised debate between would-be Republican candidates for President. At one point I turned the sound off so I could consider the nonverbal communication going on: who appeared to be pugnacious, short-tempered, and defensive? Who seemed more thoughtful, mature, and, well…presidential? That is: who were the wisest ones in that group?  Which brings me to a final observation. The wisest people I know give the impression of speaking out of a stillness at their center, a quiet place in which they are at home with themselves, in touch with God, and hospitable to the voices of others.  Do you remember how Jesus said that it’s not what goes into a person’s mouth that’s important, but what comes out, for, as he said, “what comes out of the mouth proceeds from the heart”? That is to say: your words and silences will naturally flow from your core character. If you are kind at heart, kind words will come out of your mouth. If you are mean-spirited, even if you’re a good actor, there will be unguarded moments when meanness spews from your lips.  Which means that the best way to attend to your communication with others is to go deeper. Cultivate a life of prayer and self-reflection before God. There you will develop the inner strength and freedom that Jesus was pointing to when he said, “Let your yes be yes and your no be no.” There you can listen to the promptings of the Spirit, so that when you do engage in conversation it will be of the sort that the writer of Ephesians calls “speaking the truth in love.”  For in fact, people respond much more to what you mean that what you say, anyway. Over the years as a pastor, I’ve come to realize: if you love people and they know it, even if you fumble for words, they’ll interpret what you say in a positive light. If at your core you don’t love them, you may be the most articulate person in the world, but it won’t matter. I think of the adage, “They won't care what you know, until they know that you care.” I would add that nowhere is this more important than when talking about matters of faith, and when sharing with others how the gospel of Jesus Christ has meant life for you.  There is “a time to keep silence and a time to speak,” a rhythm as old and deep as creation. Would you be wise? Take into account cultural, familial, and personal differences. Seek first to understand, and then to be understood. Choose your words carefully, applying a filter. And speak from a heart that is centered and grounded in the love of God.  Amen.  i For this imagery, thanks to a beautiful article about silence in worship by Cornelius Plantinga, Jr.: A Rhythm as Old as the Word: A Time to Be Silent, a Time to Speak, which first appeared in Reformed Worship: Resources for Planning and Leading Worship, and can be read on-line at http://network.crcna.org/worship/rhythm-old-world-time-be-silent-time-speak. ii Susan Cain, Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World that Can’t Stop Talking (New York: Random House, 2012) 