“A Time to Throw Away Stones, a Time to Gather Stones Together” EUMC 8-16-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James For Everything a Season VI texts: Ecc. 3:1-8 & Heb. 11:8-16  People often speak of the spiritual life as a “journey.” You and I are on our own individual journeys. The Bible chronicles the communal spiritual journeys of the ancient Hebrews and the early Christians. We might even describe the whole human race as being on a spiritual journey through time.  As today’s reading from Hebrews puts it, all of us are traveling toward a vision of what we know life could be, and should be, on this planet. It’s a vision of personal peace and fulfillment, as well as peace and abundance for all. This vision---of people living in harmony with each other and with all creation---forms the horizon toward which we travel. We yearn toward it, what the writer of Hebrews calls our spiritual “homeland,” and what Jesus called “the kingdom of God.”  As we travel this journey, individually and together, we mark milestones along the way. Have you been out hiking, here in the Pacific Northwest, and come upon a pile of stacked stones, largest on the bottom and smallest on top? They are called cairns or “stone stacks.” They are usually intended to mark a juncture on the journey, and to point the way for fellow travelers.  The impulse to stack stones as markers for the spiritual journey is very old. When the ancient Hebrews crossed the Jordan River into the Promised Land, they marked that place with a stack of twelve stones. They did this, as the Book of Joshua records: “that this may be a sign among you, when your children ask in time to come, ‘What do these stones mean?’ you shall tell them”i about how God liberated their people from slavery, and led them to freedom.  We see the same in the biblical story of Jacob. As Jacob was heading into the unknown territory of a new land, he slept and dreamt of a ladder that connected heaven and earth, with messengers of light ascending and descending all around him. When he awoke, he said, “Surely the Lord was in this place---and I didn’t know it…”ii He erected stones to mark that site as a special place in his spiritual journey, and to point the way for others, too.  Over time, places of spiritual significance around the world have been marked with stones: think of the stone cairns in Ireland and Scotland, and the stacked stones of native peoples in Alaska. In many places, churches or shrines have been erected on the sites of those ancient stone stacks.  Turn to our line for this morning from the Book of Ecclesiastes: there is “a time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together.” In its most literal sense, this line probably refers to the common practice of clearing stones from a plot of land for agricultural purposes, and then gathering those stones to build walls for the terraced gardens and vineyards of biblical times.  In its figurative sense, however, Ecclesiastes is referring to the spiritual journey. That is: there is a time for dismantling the stone stacks that have marked important junctures in our spiritual journey thus far. A time for sorting, clearing out, and throwing away some of those stones---those beliefs, or ways of being religious that don’t serve us well anymore. There is also a time for gathering together the ones we want to keep, as well as new stones. There is a time to build a new stone stack to give direction to the next phase of our journey. James Fowler was director of the Center for Research on Faith and Moral Development until he retired in 2005. Fowler is also a United Methodist minister. He wrote a now-classic book, published in 1981, called Stages of Faith. Based on extensive research, the book describes the typical path of human development in the area of spirituality. We might say that Fowler mapped out the spiritual journey as a developmental process through which people mature over time.  Fowler described six developmental stages of faith.iii In the years since his book was published, others have come up with slightly different schemes---Richard Rohr, for instance, identifies nine stages---but they all follow basically the same trajectory. M. Scott Peck has synthesized the work done to date in this field, and outlines a four-stage process of spiritual development.iv  Pastors learn about these stages of spiritual growth in seminary. But this trajectory should be widely available to everyone. For it provides markers for the spiritual journey, like ancient stone stacks. The stages testify to human experience over time, and point the way forward. So let me walk you through Peck’s four stages of spiritual development, based on Fowler’s work, in necessarily very abbreviated form, this morning. And as I do, see how it compares with your own spiritual journey, or that of other people you know.  Stage I is a totally undeveloped spirituality. People at this stage are egoistic and lack empathy for others. They may think they are loving---and may even be able to make a good pretense of it---but essentially they are manipulative and self-serving in all their activities and relationships. They tend to be unprincipled, since they have no guiding principles except their own impulses and desires. Their life is chaotic. This is a normal stage for babies, but when adults get stuck there, it becomes problematic. Do you know anyone like this?  But now suppose a Stage I baby is born into a home in which loving parents guide the child. Such a child will gradually internalize the principles of the parents’ life and faith, acquiring a sense of self-discipline and moral conscience. Not all children are so lucky. Some, lacking an environment that’s conducive to spiritual growth, may one day have a sudden conversion experience, and that’s how they move to Stage II.  They may reach a point in their lives when they say, “The way I’m living is self-serving and empty. I’ll submit myself to whatever external authority will liberate me from this chaos.” Some end up in jail, or other highly structured organizations like the military. But many others submit themselves to the church. For people at this stage, the Church is a refuge and a comfort, telling them what to believe and what to do.  You may have observed that people at Stage II often think of God as a benevolent dictator who loves but who’s also willing to use punitive power to enforce God’s will. They often view the Bible as a rulebook for life. Perhaps you’ve seen the bumper sticker that says: “The Bible says it. I believe it. That settles it.” That’s a Stage II creed. People at Stage II become attached to the forms of their religion, and become extremely upset when these are called into question. They tend to see the world as divided into good and evil, right and wrong, us and them.  But now suppose a couple of Stage II people get married, and love their children as the church tells them to. The kids go to Sunday School every week. And then, at some normal stage in their growth, usually at adolescence, they have developed enough independence not to want an institution or a rulebook imposing structure on them. They want to think for themselves. And so they cast away the stones of Stage II that they now view as the simplistic or superstitious beliefs of their parents, or of tradition, or what they like to call “organized religion.” They enter into Stage III of the spiritual journey.  Stage III people don’t believe that you have to recite a certain formula, or belong to the “right” religious organization, in order to be saved. They refuse to take anything on blind faith. They tend to be skeptical, intellectual, scientific, and individualistic. They may become non-religious at this point, and many will stay there permanently. Those who do retain the stones of religious belief move away from the more dogmatic forms of religion, picking and choosing the stones that make sense to them. They often are very ethical, for their own reasons, and involved in social causes---new stones for the stack.  But then---and this is usually gradual---people in Stage III sometimes begin to get glimpses of something “more” than a world that can be grasped by their own minds. They become increasingly aware of what might be called Mystery with a capital “M,” connecting all things, making all things one. While retaining skepticism, they perceive grand patterns in nature and develop a deeper understanding of good and evil, forgiveness and mercy, compassion and love. They have entered into Stage IV of the spiritual journey.  People at Stage IV are mystics in the best sense of the word. They understand that truth has many dimensions that have to be held together in paradoxical tension. This is the stage to which Jesus points, what a person looks like when fully grown in terms of spiritual development. It’s the stage of loving others as yourself, losing your attachment to your ego, and forgiving your enemies. It’s the stage of letting go of tribal gods and embracing a more universal faith.  James Fowler writes, “…we can describe this stage as one in which persons begin radically to live as though what Christians and Jews call the ‘kingdom of God’ were already a fact. They experience a shift from the self as the center of experience. Now their center becomes a participation in God or ultimate reality. They're at home with what I call a commonwealth of being.” Ecclesiastes would call such people: wise.  Do you recognize yourself at any of these stages? Do they call to mind people you know, or know about? It’s exciting, isn’t it, to think about all of us being on a spiritual journey, individually and together? A journey that can continue all our lives? And a journey in which there will be times of throwing away stones---letting go of beliefs or attitudes or spiritual states of being that we have outgrown---and times of gathering stones together---both old and new, assembling an ever-more expansive and gracious way of being in the world?  I ask you: what does the world need more than people who are spiritually maturing, growing in their capacity to love God and neighbor? People who are wise, and serving the common good? This is the foundation of all the solutions to the world’s problems. It’s the road to abundance and peace, the spiritual homeland, the kingdom of God on earth, for which we yearn.  What could be more important? Amen. i Joshua 4:1-7 ii Genesis 28:10-17 iii See James Fowler’s classic book, Stages of Faith: The Psychology of Human Development and the Quest for Meaning (San Francisco: Harper & Row, 1976) pp. 270-80, and also his more recent book, Faithful Change: The Personal and Public Challenges of Postmodern Life (Nashville: Abingdon Press, 1996) iv See M. Scott Peck’s classic book, The Road Less Traveled: A New Psychology of Love, Traditional Values, and Spiritual Growth (New York: Simon & Schuster, 1978) and subsequent works  