“A Time to Sow, a Time to Reap” For Everything a Season VI I 8-23-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James EUMC texts: Eccles. 3:1-8 & Acts 5:12-16  For seven weeks now, we have been exploring the famous passage in Ecclesiastes, Chapter 3. You can probably recite it by now. “To everything there is a season, and a time to every purpose under heaven.” Then comes a catalog of the various seasons of life, twenty-eight of them arranged in contrast with each other, and each an undeniable part of human existence.  The list begins with what is most fundamentally true: that one day, we are born into this world, and one day we will die. The French composer Hector Berlioz once remarked, “Time is a great teacher. Unfortunately, it kills all its pupils.” Ecclesiastes would agree, though he might object to the adverb “unfortunately.” For him, the universe is no doubt unfolding as it should.  Only God knows why existence is ordered the way it is. What we can know is that birth and death, laughing and weeping, gaining and losing----all will happen in every human life. They are life. Life is a flux and flow of time that carries us from one situation to the next, one experience to the next, one season to the next, until eventually we have lived them all.  The measure of a person’s life, however, is not how many days or years we live. For Ecclesiastes, it has to do with whether we live life to the fullest as we go along. What do we bring to each moment, and what do we take from it? Do we plumb the depths of each experience and each season, allowing each one to shape and form us? And are we more kind, more just, and more integrated---that is, are we wiser---for having lived through that time?  The wonderful author, Joan Chittister, summarizes the wisdom of Ecclesiastes. This book of the Bible, she says, “invites us to see life as a mosaic made up of small pieces common to us all but lived uniquely by each one of us. Finally, the pattern emerges….finally, the truth dawns that life is simply a matter of living from one season to the next, and if we are lucky, learning as we go.”  This morning we turn to one last pair of seasons that Ecclesiastes yokes together: a time to sow, and a time to reap. A time to sow: to plant seeds for the future, to dig in and work hard. And a time to reap: to gather in the fruit of our labors, and to celebrate all that has been done.  As we reflect on this line this morning, we are also going to embody it. Because today is a time to reap! This week we come to the end of four and a half years of fruitful ministry through the mobile clinic here at our church, providing free medical care for our neighbors in need. The time is right for this ministry to come to an end---the health care landscape has changed, and many more people now have access to affordable care.  So today we pause to consider all the good that has been done through the clinic: the care given and received, the relationships formed, the faith expressed in loving action. You’ll hear more about all of those things this morning. But before I invite Lynn Heitritter to share with us, I want to express deep thanks, on behalf of the whole congregation, to Lynn, and Ron, and all of you who have been part of the mobile clinic ministry.  A ministry of this magnitude doesn’t happen without leaders who do the hard and hidden work of sowing. Lynn, as Site Coordinator, and Ron, as Chaplain and truck driver, have been those leaders. They’ve worked tirelessly---Lynn alone has clocked more than 12,000 volunteer hours! Their extraordinary leadership and determined faithfulness have inspired everyone around them. Lynn and Ron, would you please stand and receive our deep thanks and appreciation? (clap)  If you would, please remain standing. Additional thanks will be expressed in this service, but let me now acknowledge some others who have contributed to this vital ministry. And if you are here at this service would you also please stand and remain standing, and we will hold our applause until the end.  Pete and Marilyn Limberopoulos, of the Rusty Pelican Restaurant, have provided free lunches to all the clinic staff once a month for four years!  Members of the Daybreakers Rotary Club have made multiple donations, especially for much-needed diabetic supplies.  Volunteers have served as doctors, nurses, cooks, schedulers, Stephen ministers, and in a host of other ways. Patients have helped to make this a community of mutual care and commitment. So at this time I want to invite anyone here at this service who has been involved in the clinic in any way, including all former and current mobile clinic staff and patients, to please stand.  We thank God for each one of you. As a congregation, we have become kinder, more just, and wiser through this season of our life together. Will you all please join me in expressing our love and appreciation? [all clap] You may be seated.  Now I invite Lynn to share her reflections, as we continue to mark this time of reaping, celebrating, and gathering in.  