Matters of the Heart Edmonds United Methodist Church August 30, 2015 Sermon by Rev. Tom Quigley James 1: 17-27 and Mark 7: 1-8, 14-15, 21-23  I remember following the story, a few years ago, about a 53 year old man known as Jon Doe who woke up in Discovery Park, not knowing who he was, how he got there, or where he was from, and not able to remember very much at all about his past, other than some vague memories about having been married, having taught at several prominent universities and aware that he had a lot of knowledge about European cultural history. He didn’t have a driver’s license or any ID, although he did have $600 in cash hidden in his sock. He didn’t know his name or anything about his recent past, but he was pretty articulate as he spoke to police, doctors, hospital officials, and to the press, telling them that he wasn’t sure he even wanted to know about his life or his past. Even after he was recognized by a Seattle Times reader in China, who remembered him in Shanghai, and was told that his name was Edward Lightheart, and that he had spent some time recently in Canada and then at a sister’s home in Las Vegas, he said that he preferred the name Jon Doe. Thanks, anyway, he said. I think I’ll stick with Jon Doe and try to create a new identity for myself, rather than claiming my old one.  Today’s gospel reading from Mark is also about identity. It tells the story of a time when Jesus and his disciples were moving about the Galilee region of northern Israel, preaching and teaching, when some scribes and Pharisees from Jerusalem decided to come north and find out more about this young teacher who they heard was drawing crowds and stirring up the people. They came looking for an opportunity to confront or perhaps embarrass Jesus, perhaps to slow him down or to create some suspicion among the common people. Sure enough, as soon as they arrived, they noticed that the disciples, hungry and thirsty from their morning work, gathered quickly around the lunch tables and began to reach for and devour the food and drinks that had been set out for them. The scribes and Pharisees noticed that they ate their food without first washing up; without thoroughly washing their hands in the traditional way of the Jewish elders.  Jesus was their leader, so the Pharisees singled him out and confronted him about it. “Why do your disciples not live according to the tradition of the elders, but eat with defiled hands?” they asked. Not really a question for information, we can imagine, but one filled with accusation.  From what happened next, I have a hunch that this might have been a day when Jesus had had a bad morning. Maybe he had been interrupted too many times and didn’t get done what he had planned to do that morning. Maybe he was hungry and thirsty too, and thought he was going to be able to eat some good food, enjoy some privacy, or some peace and quiet, or maybe even some diversion, sharing some jokes or funny parables with his friends. Instead, here were these uninvited “high and mighties” from down south, from the Big City, just itching for a chance to ruin his day. Well, Jesus pretty much exploded! Went straight for the jugular of those “high and mighties”, quoting from the prophet Isaiah, no less. He called the scribes and Pharisees “hypocrites” and blasted them with a passage in Isaiah: “This people honors me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me; in vain do they worship me, teaching human precepts as doctrine.”  And then instead of calming down, he escalated; he stood on a table and got the passing crowd’s attention. Listen to me, he said, and understand this! “There is nothing outside a person that by going in can defile, but the things that come out are what defile.”  Some in the crowd probably said “Huh?” What do you mean by what “comes out” of a person? Is this really about washing hands? Or what? And Jesus then gives this list of what he calls the evil intentions that come from the heart – fornication, theft, murder, adultery, avarice, wickedness, deceit, licentiousness, envy, slander, pride, folly. Quite a list, don’t you agree?  Well, here and elsewhere in the Gospels, the Pharisees seem to get a pretty bad rap. And that has had some terrible implications for human history. Jesus’ explosion at these Pharisees and at the “traditions of the elders” that they talked about, was often used in Christian history to criticize and ostracize the Jews – “hypocrites” was a word that later went beyond the Pharisees to include the whole of the Jewish people, and that led to anti-semitism, hatred, and, as we know, some very terrible atrocities.  I think it’s important, though, before we jump to some conclusions about this incident, to take another look at who the Pharisees were. Contemporary scripture scholars are helping us understand the Pharisees. I understand the belief now is that there were about 4,000 of them around Jesus’ time, and that they actually represented and were leading a significant and for the most part positive reform movement within Judaism. Their approach was to encourage a return to certain historic traditions of the people of Israel, as a way of helping the community to remember and claim their unique identity, especially as they tried to survive and retain their culture as a minority in an increasingly complex and diverse world. They were, as the Christians later were, in danger of losing their identity, of taking on so many of the characteristics of the surrounding culture that they forgot who they were.  It’s not unlike what has happened to the Native American people, the First Peoples of the Pacific Northwest – or what many fear is happening to refugee or immigrant communities today as they become more and more integrated into American society. As the second and third generations of people from Korea or from the Pacific Islands settle into American culture, they too are in danger of losing or forgetting their culture, their heritage, their identity.  Concerns about American identity – what does it mean to be an American? - are becoming increasingly significant in our national political campaigns this year, as some of the candidates for President play into the fears and ignorance of the American people around what to do about the eleven million immigrant persons who are living among us without proper documents. Not only does the future of one of our historic political parties appear to be at risk because of the outlandish positions of several of its candidates, but the basic American commitment to forge an identity that embraces our pluralism is now being challenged by some who are wishing to become our leader. As Thomas Friedman wrote this week, though, pluralism is “the very secret of our sauce…that out of many we make one.”  We see that concern about identity today among Christian communities as well, in both positive and negative forms. Many national churches in the United States, including the Episcopal Church, the Presbyterian Church and the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, have had major debates and made crucial decisions in their churchwide gatherings in recent years about ordaining gay and lesbian persons, about allowing them to serve in parish ministry and about permitting pastors to perform same sex marriages. They were making decisions about who they were, and therefore who was on the inside and who was on the outside. This congregation has engaged in a similar debate over the last number of years about how to be and become fully inclusive of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people. Our decision earlier this summer to become a Reconciling Congregation was a decision about our public identity, but it was also part of a continuing process of defining or re-defining the identity of this congregation within our regional and national church. Meanwhile that whole debate continues in full force across the United Methodist Church, and it will for several more years.  Apparently one reason that groups feel a need to have a definitive identity is so that they can more easily decide who is in and who is out – to decide the “lines in the sand” which will determine who is included and who is excluded.  So maybe that is a clue for why Jesus was in such a snit that day – and why he came down so hard on the Pharisees.  I actually don’t think that Jesus was speaking up for not washing your hands before you eat. Even in his day, it was probably a good idea to wash the dust off before sitting at the table. And in our day, it is certainly a good idea to wash your hands before you eat. Just ask the Centers for Disease Control or one of those TV doctors on the network news programs. They say that the best way to avoid bad things happening is to wash your hands with soap, often, especially before you touch your mouth.  I also don’t think I agree with Jesus when he says it doesn’t matter what you put into your body, it’s what comes out that matters. Wrong, Jesus. Just ask my doctor. It does matter what you eat, he tells me – cut back on your carbs, reduce your sugar intake, don’t eat so much bread, eat more fiber and fruit and vegetables and beans. And, while you’re at it, lose some weight too.  Actually Jesus probably agreed with the Pharisees efforts at reform anyway. Remember, he was a good Jew. He knew the dangers of losing identity in an occupied territory of the Roman Empire and in the tremendously diverse Mediterranean world.  So maybe this was just one of those times when people were just talking past each other. We’ve all had that experience, I suppose, when we were just not talking about the same thing, even though we were arguing strenuously.  The Pharisees were saying that it is really important to maintain the purity of the community, and in that way retain a distinct identity that preserves the culture of the ancestors.  Jesus was trying to make the point that when the struggle to retain the identity of the group gets in the way of the community’s true mission – feeding the poor, caring for the widows and orphans – well, then you have gone too far. For Jesus, mission trumps purity. “…for I was hungry and you gave me food; I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink; I was a stranger and you welcomed me; I was in prison and you visited me; I was naked and you gave me clothing; I was sick and you took care of me… (because) just as you did it to one of the least of these who are members of my family, you did it to me…”  When asked to boil it all down, Jesus went to the heart of the matter and taught us that the way to maintain your identity and your integrity is to remember to love God and love your neighbor. It is as simple and as complex as that. 