EUMC Blessing of Backpacks Sunday Sermon Jennifer McLaughlin September 6, 2015  Matthew 5:14-16 Let me tell you why you are here. You’re here to be salt-seasoning that brings out the God-flavors of this earth… Here’s another way to put it: You’re here to be light, bringing out the God-colors in the world. God is not a secret to be kept. We’re going public with this, as public as a city on a hill. If I make you light-bearers, you don’t think I’m going to hide you under a bucket, do you? I’m putting you on a light stand. Now that I’ve put you there on a hilltop, on a light stand—shine! Keep open house; be generous with your lives. By opening up to others, you’ll prompt people to open up with God, this generous Father in heaven. Becoming a parent was one of the best things to ever happen to me. This child was born and my life was changed. This little being emerged into the world, utterly dependent on me for nourishment, for relief, for life. Those of you who are not parents may remember the feeling of falling in love with a niece or nephew, or a brother or a sister. We experience this even when we baptize children in church. We see this baby or toddler and our hearts warm. We can’t help but love them and want to cheer for the little ones. Then these little children grow - so quickly they grow. We watch in wonder at their achievements, the acts of kindness, and the unique nature of this human being. We want them to thrive. As they get older, they begin to wonder, who am I? Am I enough? What is the point of all this anyway? And, if it’s true that God made me, why me? What is it God has in store for me? What unique gift do I have to offer? You may wonder these same things - or you may remember wondering these things. The God that created us, knows us so well. God knows these very questions, and has given us an answer in scripture to these deep questions we wrestle with throughout life. What’s the point of my life? Who am I? What do I have to offer? Eugene Peterson is a theologian who wrote a paraphrase of the Bible and his version of Matthew 5 answers those questions, “You’re here to be salt-seasoning that brings out the God-flavors of this earth… Here’s another way to put it: you’re here to be light, bringing out the God-colors in the world.” You’re here - you’re alive to be God-flavors. God-colors. What is that really? When I was a kid, my favorite toy was a light bright. I brought one in today for one of the kids to play with. I loved creating patterns and designs that were full of light filled color. When I read this text, I pictured a light bright - these lights filled with different colors creating a beautiful image. I love this image of us being God-colors. (PAUSE) Notice that in the light bright there are lots of colors. Each color is important individually. Each light needs to shine, but, do not shine alone. All of these lights shining their God-colors together give us an image of God. If all the lights were orange, it wouldn’t look as spectacular as it does with all the different colors working together to make a fantastic image. Look with me at one of the lights. I want you to imagine that this light is you. This light inside of you has a voice. Close your eyes with me for a moment. Picture this light inside you. And ask that light inside of you, “what is your deepest fear”? “What gets in the way of you being you?” “What old wounds are your carrying?” Let’s give some attention for a moment to these fears or wounds. Now, ask yourself, what do you need? You can open your eyes again. Now, listen to the rest of this text, “If I make you light-bearers, you don’t think I’m going to hide you under a bucket, do you? I’m putting you on a light stand. Now that I’ve put you there on a hilltop, on a light stand—shine!” (PAUSE) Notice how the light inside you is feeling. It may feel afraid. It may feel anxious. That’s okay. But I want your light to hear this. You are enough. You are accepted. You are loved. In fact - God loves you so much and is so proud of you that God wants to show you off like a star shining on top of a hill at Christmas. I don’t mean to scare you. :) What if the church were actually a school? I don’t mean a school for learning facts, but a school that teaches our heart, soul, and mind about who we really are. Imagine that every time you came to church, you could bring the anxiety that you carry and have it be transformed into love. Picture Super-Hero meets the movie Inside-Out. You now have the super power to change fear into love. Do you think that is possible? I believe that is what God wants to do for us. God takes our anxieties and heals them so that we can shine our imperfect selves into this world and let people see the gorgeous God-colors in us. One of the ways God does this is through Sabbath. When we rest God heals us and releases us from our fears, freeing us to love and shine our God-colors. God-color looks like all sorts of different people with different strengths and different struggles sharing love with one another. It looks like people no longer afraid to follow their dreams. It looks like people that are free to be themselves - no matter what mistakes they’ve made. It looks like people who love and accept one another - even if their color makes the other person uncomfortable. Its hard to do this with other people. We meet a new friend and they seem so great. Then you get to know them better and see their flaws. They make mistakes. We’re disappointed. It takes work to love and accept them without needing to change them. Accepting ourselves is even harder! My favorite thing about the Bible is that it’s full of stories of imperfect people who are loved by God anyhow. There’s Noah. God loved Noah and had big plans for him. He built the Ark and saved animals and people from the flood. But Noah had a drinking problem and one night he ends up drunk and naked embarrassing himself in front of his family. There’s Moses. Moses was the baby found in the Nile river who was raised by the Pharoah. God then called Moses to stand up for all the people enslaved by Pharoah. But Moses - he had a stuttering problem. He was terrified and wanted God to call someone else! I love the story of Rahab. Hers is a unique story. It’s not often in the Bible that you hear about a woman who is called by name. But Rahab was important. She acted like a spy and helped hide the people of God so they would be safe. God blessed Rahab. She became the mother of Boaz who married Ruth and is a great, great, great grandmother to Jesus (not sure how many greats are in there, but you get the idea). Jesus came from Rahab. She was important. But you know what - Rahab was a prostitute. She made some bad choices. But God loved her and used her anyways! When God called me to use my life for God, I was scared. The thought of getting up in front of people terrified me. I kind of liked the idea of it but I was so nervous. I have a condition called Essential Tremor, that makes my hands shake. I thought - how could I ever talk in front of people? I’d just be nervous all the time. Yet, God had a plan for me. I still am learning how to not let my fears get in the way. God takes our weaknesses and uses us to show the God-colors and flavors to the world. So, I wonder about you. I wonder how God wants to use you. I wonder what your gifts are that God wants to put in the light. And I wonder - what do you need to feel empowered to let your God-colors shine? What would it take for you to be free to be the person God made you to be? Hopefully you received two little pieces of paper when you came in. I want you to take out those pieces of paper now. Take the first piece of paper and write down what you need so that you can let your God-colors shine. It might be one word, or it may be longer. I wonder what you need. Is it forgiveness, hope, faith, courage, peace, compassion? Maybe you need a hug. Reflect for a moment and then write down what YOU need. Likewise, I wonder if you might be carrying any old JUNK that gets in the way of you shining your light. What trash might you be carrying that you need to clean out of your backpack so you are ready for a fresh start? I wonder if it’s fear, self-hate, prejudice, pride, or cutting. Take the second piece of paper. Picture that light inside you again. What does that little light need to be free from in order to shine? Write that down. Today is Blessing of the Backpack Sunday. In the narthex, we have a table set up with lots of backpacks and books. After worship, I want you to take your word that you need this year and put it in a backpack. Then I want you to take the word you need to be free from and place that in the basket under the table. God made you and has a purpose for you. I wonder what that is. I wonder how God wants you to shine this year at school, at work, in your homes, in your friendships. Remember the baby we talked about at the start? It’s easy to love that little child. Let’s offer some of that love to the child within us and open our hearts to God so that we can shine our God-colors in our world. Our world desperately needs to see the light in you. And God wants you to be YOU so that we can enjoy all of the flavors - all the God-colors that God made! And all God’s, people said, Amen. 