“No Small Thing” a sermon preached at EUMC Homecoming Sunday 9-13-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: *Luke 14:15-24 & Revelation 19:9-10  I’ve recently come to embrace the word, “y’all.” I’m trying to incorporate it into my everyday vocabulary.  I grew up in Southern California. My family didn’t use this word. We wouldn’t have even known of it except for the occasional Western movie on TV. Do you remember how, at the end of the TV show called “The Beverly Hillbillies,” the grandma sat in her rocking chair on the porch, waving good-bye? My little sister would sit on the floor in front of the TV, enthusiastically waving back. The theme song of that show always ended with the character named Ellie Mae saying, “Ya’ll come back now, y’hear?”  The word “y’all” comes from the American South. It’s actually very functional: it clears up the distinction we have, in the English language, between “you” singular, and “you” plural. It also allows for emphasis on the plural when you double it up, as in the wonderful Southern expression: “All y’all.” If I say, “All y’all” are invited to the Homecoming feast after church today, that means that all of you, without exception, and your friends and family too, are warmly invited to come.  I wish the scholars who translated our Bible into English had had these distinctions at their disposal. Because without them, we can miss the fact that when the English word “you” appears in our Bible, more often than not, the pronoun in the original Hebrew or Greek is in the plural form. The “you” in our Bible is almost always a plural “y’all.”  So, for instance, in Exodus, we read, “you shall be for me a priestly kingdom.” It does not say, “you, as an individual, are to be a deeply spiritual person,” or “these words are just for you, Moses.” The “you” is in the plural form. And Deuteronomy repeatedly says, “you are to be holy to the Lord your God.” The calling to holy living isn’t issued only to individuals, but to a people, a community.  The frequent use of the plural “you” continues in the New Testament. For instance, when Jesus says, “You are the light of the world,” the Greek pronoun is plural, so it means: you all, the community of my followers---are to carry on the work that I came to do. Not you the individual, but y’all---the collective you---are to be light in a darkened world, making God’s love visible and believable to others.  Turn to our gospel reading for this morning. Jesus is telling a parable about the Kingdom of God. The Kingdom of God, you remember, is a shorthand phrase for that time and place, wherever it may be, that God’s intent for human life is fulfilled. The parable begins: “A man once gave a great banquet, and invited many…” Have you ever noticed how many stories Jesus told that involve meals? The gospels are filled with stories about eating and drinking because it was believed that when the Kingdom comes, when God’s will is done on earth as it is in heaven, it will be like a great banquet, and all the world’s people, “all y’all” will be there celebrating.  …and at the time for the dinner party, he sent his servant to say to those who had been invited, “Come, for everything is ready now.” But they all began to make excuses…  I just bought some real estate, and I have to go see it. I just bought some oxen, and I’m going to try them out. I just got married; please accept my regrets. My kids have soccer practice. That’s the only day of the week I get to sleep in! There’s a football game on TV. (I’m meddling now, aren’t I?) In other words: I have my own life to live. I can’t come to a party right now. I have my own individual goals and interests to pursue.  Hearing these excuses, the host becomes angry. Is it really such a radical, counter-cultural idea that people might come together to worship Someone other than themselves? That they might gather, even just once a week, to be reminded that they---and their own needs and preferences---are not the center of the universe?  The man says to his servant, “Well, I still want this banquet to take place. So go out and beat the bushes until you find enough guests to fill my house. Go out into the roads and the lanes, inviting everyone you meet: the blind, the poor, strangers, everyone who is not too wrapped up in their own concerns to come.” And the parable ends on this note, with this image of the Kingdom of God: a new community of friends and strangers, gathered together in the master’s house, having a party, sharing a feast.  You see, community isn’t just a convenient arrangement suggested by the Bible for the working out of our individual salvation. It’s the great commission in the vast majority of biblical texts, including today’s parable. The gospel of God’s love for all people, revealed in Jesus Christ, becomes visible and real only when it is incarnated in the way Christians actually live together. People are supposed to be able to look at us, a community of Christ’s disciples, and get a glimpse of the heavenly banquet, the Kingdom of God, a way of life that holds up hope for the world.  In a book entitled Call to Conversion, Jim Wallis offers a revealing description of the early Christian church:  They were known as ‘the people of the Way.’ More than just individuals who had been converted, they were now a people, a new community which had embarked together on a new way of life. ….The Word was not only announced but seen in the community of those who were giving it flesh…Here love was given daily expression. People were no longer divided into Jew and Gentile, slave and free, male and female. In this community the weak were protected, and the stranger welcomed. People were healed; the poor and dispossessed were cared for and found justice. Everything was shared, joy abounded, and ordinary lives were filled with praise….i  It sounds like a banquet, doesn’t it? A feast. Contemporary writer Anne Lamott puts it differently. But a paragraph in her popular book, Traveling Mercies, calls to mind accounts of early Christianity. Listen to her explanation of why she makes her ten-year-old son go to church:  The main reason is that I want to give him what I’ve found in the world, which is to say a path and a little light to see by. Most of the people who have what I want---which is to say, purpose, heart, balance, gratitude, joy---are people with a deep sense of spirituality. They are people in community, who pray, and practice their faith, …people banding together to work on themselves and for human rights. They follow a brighter light than the glimmer of their own candle; they are part of something beautiful… Our funky little church is filled with people who are working for peace and freedom, who are out there on the streets and inside praying. They are home writing letters, and they are at the shelters with giant platters of food.ii  I don’t have to tell you that we live in a world that can be deeply troubling. Open the newspaper or turn on the evening news, and a litany of terrible things scrolls out: streams of refugees fleeing the violence in Syria, a three-year-old child face down on the beach. Hatred, war, poverty, corruption, kidnappings, murder, mayhem, fires, and floods…It’s tempting, in the face of such things, to give in to feelings of helplessness and defeat.  What can you and I do? It’s tempting to stay home, wrap ourselves in tight cocoons, and tend to our own individual affairs. What does it really matter, after all, if we gather here and try to respond to God’s call to be a holy people? In the face of all that is going on in the world, just being the church seems like such a small thing.  But…is it really a small thing that, as disciples of Christ, we are seeking to be a genuinely caring community? One in which children are cherished, elders are honored, and all people are treated as persons of sacred worth? Is it a small thing that we express this care in daily, concrete ways, like making casseroles, sending notes, knitting prayer shawls, and simply being there for one another? I think of other parables Jesus told about the Kingdom of God, about how small things can make a big difference: a mustard seed, a lump of yeast, a pinch of salt.  Ask the woman who’s living with cancer whether it’s a small thing to have church friends accompany her to her chemo appointment every week. Or the man in a nursing home whether it matters that church folks come regularly to visit him. Or the woman who came to us through the mobile health clinic and who is receiving a new leg brace---as a result of your generosity---and will soon be able to walk without pain for the first time in years.  And is it such a small thing that we seek, in this community, to help people grow spiritually? Through Sunday School and our Children’s Center, we teach children that they are precious to God, and to us. We impart values and share the stories of our faith. Through youth ministries and mission trips, we give young people experiences that will shape the rest of their lives. Through ChristCare groups, classes and retreats, we encourage each other to reflect on our faith and live our lives more fully in the light of God’s grace, revealed in Jesus Christ.  I ask you: is there anything this world needs more than people who are growing in their capacity to love God and neighbor? And is it a small thing that, in the course of our life together, this community becomes a living laboratory where we are continually challenged to stretch our abilities to accept each other, forgive each other, and speak the truth in love? It’s sometimes said, “If human beings can learn to resolve our conflicts, we will someday be able to live in community.” But I think that might be backwards. Perhaps if human beings can learn to live in community, we will someday be able to resolve our conflicts. i From The Call to Conversion, by Jim Wallis, San Francisco : Harper & Row, 1981, pp. 13-15 ii From Traveling Mercies, by Anne Lamott, New York: Random House, 1999, p. 100 Then this. Given all the pain in this world, is it a small thing that in this community, we try to reach out to our neighbors in need? Over 1500 people a week receive food through our food bank. We tutor at-risk school children and serve dinner to their families every week. We offer emergency shelter in cold weather, and provide Christmas gifts to families in need through our Toy Shop. We host recovery and support groups, contribute to global missions and disaster relief, advocate for social change…and the list goes on. I wonder. Isn’t love in action, on a human scale, exactly what our surrounding society needs to see?  And soon, through the proceeds of the property sale we are celebrating today, we will be seeking out more ways to make God’s love visible and real to others. Ideas are circulating: shall we convert our parsonage to a center for justice and peace? Or a transitional house for the homeless? Provide infant and toddler care for struggling families? Should we plan to adopt and help some Syrian refugees begin a new life? I encourage you all to be thinking and praying and talking about the new ministries that God may be calling and equipping us to undertake. Whatever we do will require champions, and investment of time and energy, as well as money. It will be thrilling to see how this process of discernment unfolds in the months ahead.  But this morning we pause to mark the milestone of this property sale. Because that’s another thing that a community of faith does. We mark the milestones of our life together. We baptize babies, dance at each other’s weddings, help each other through when one among us dies. We laugh and cry together. For God has given us one another to love.  These are not small things. They are the things that matter most in our world! The point of our parable is that creation of community is nothing less than God’s strategy for bringing about the Kingdom of God on earth! On this Homecoming Sunday we gather to worship God, to sing and pray, to greet old friends and new, and to celebrate an important milestone in our life together. There is even a literal feast to share! I have to say it; you know I can’t resist:  Y’all come!  Amen.              