“Lay Your Burdens Down” a sermon preached at EUMC 9-20-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Matthew 11:28-30 & Galatians 6:1-2  Our text for this morning is one of the most beloved passages in Scripture. It’s a word of consolation from Jesus, and an invitation. First the consolation: “Come unto me, all you that are weary and are carrying heavy burdens, and I will give you rest.”  A word of solace, and relief. Jesus knows and understands the burdens that we carry. Looking out at you all this morning, I know just some of what you carry, and I tell you, it’s a heavy load. Worries about health, finances, work, family. Sorrows and disappointments from the past. Anxieties about the future. Loneliness, addictions, depression, broken relationships…  And the pace of modern life. The relentless demands and responsibilities. I was talking to a clergy colleague the other day. He spoke of the weight of responsibility he feels for the well-being of his church. He pointed to his shoulders, where he carries his tension and stress, and said, “There it is. I carry the church right there, all the time.” Do you carry your responsibilities there too? On your shoulders, like an ever-present, invisible, heavy…yoke?  Jesus knows the burdens of our lives. Come to me, he says, and I will give you rest.  Jesus knows, too, that some of the burdens we carry are self-imposed. It’s important for us to note the context of this passage in Matthew’s gospel. In the chapters leading up to our text, Jesus has been verbally sparring with the Pharisees. The Pharisees, you remember, were highly respected members of society. They were educated teachers and leaders, and religiously devout. They were capable and conscientious. That is to say: they were a lot like most of us.  The biggest problem of the Pharisees was their tendency toward over-responsibility. They strove to be virtuous, to be found worthy in God’s eyes, and in their own eyes. They attempted to live up to rigorous---even impossibly high---standards and obligations. And they insisted that everyone else should try to live up to them, too. In Matthew 23, Jesus says of the Pharisees, “They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on the shoulders of others.”  Does this sound like anyone you know? Or let me ask this: is it possible that you are loaded down, not just by the external circumstances of your life, and not just by your job and family and other responsibilities, but by something deeper…within yourself? Something that constantly tells you that you must do more, try harder, be better, to prove yourself worthy? In theological language, this relentless internal pressure is called “works-righteousness.” One of my favorite preachers, Barbara Brown Taylor, describes her experience of it this way:  I may believe that I live by God’s grace, but I act like a Scout collecting merit badges. I have a list of things to do that is a mile long, and while there are a number of things on the list that I genuinely want to do, the majority of them are things I think I ought to do, that I should do, that I’d better do, or God will not love me anymore. I may believe that my life depends on God’s grace, but I act like it depends on me and how many good deeds I can perform, as if every day were a talent show, and God had nothing better to do than keep up with my score.i There’s a certain grandiosity to this way of living, since it assumes that we actually could live up to impossible standards. There’s a certain pathos to it, too. Constantly driving ourselves---however we do it, climbing the career ladder, trying to impress others, trying to be the perfect parent, taking on more jobs at church---all to be pronounced “good enough” on some scoreboard in the sky, is the most tiring work in the world. And it’s never done. The goal always goes ahead of us, just out of reach. Do you know this struggle? I do. It’s an exhausting way to live. And it leads to the heaviest burden of all: despair.  Jesus has been talking with the Pharisees when he says, “Come unto me, all you that are weary and carrying heavy burdens.” He’s extending not only consolation, but an invitation to a different way of living. He offers them---offers us---a rest from trying and trying and trying.  I know a woman who tells of a time when she was in the mountains, on a vigorous hike. As she walked down the trail, she was internally in that “over-focused, over-industrious” mode of being that all Pharisees know: focused on the future, working herself up into a lather of questions, plans, and various imagined eventualities and outcomes. She brought this inner turmoil to God, praying, “What do you want me to do---this, that, what?”  And then a voice spoke in the depths of her soul. It said, “Daughter, stop trying.” Just that. “Stop trying.” In that instant, it was as if Someone had opened her eyes, or cleaned the lenses of her glasses, bringing the world into clearer focus. She saw, suddenly, where she was: in an evergreen forest, with snow on the ground. The air was still. It was beautiful. Pure gift. And she had almost missed it! It was an intervention, really: “Stop trying.”  Our text goes on. Jesus continues: “Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me; for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”  Which seems like a mixed message, doesn’t it? Stop trying. Come and rest…by taking up my yoke! It reminds me of the scene in the movie Raising Arizona, where the bumbling bank robber yells, “Freeze! Everyone get down on the floor!” and a customer says, “Well, which one is it?” Freeze, or get down on the floor?ii Which one is it, Jesus? Do you want us to stop and rest---finally, blessedly, allow ourselves to rest---or do you want us to take up yet another yoke?  The key, here, is in this concept, “yoke.” A yoke was a piece of wood that joined together two oxen for pulling a plow or a wagon. As a carpenter, Jesus must have made many yokes. The ox would be brought to the shop, and measurements were taken. The yoke was then roughed out, and the ox was brought back to have it tried on. It was carefully adjusted. Then the wood was sanded smooth so that it wouldn’t chafe the animal’s neck. Like a well-made suit or a well-fitting pair of shoes, the yoke was tailor-made to fit the ox.  And here’s the thing: a yoke was made for two animals. It was used to bring the strength of two together, in order to pull a load that was impossible for one to pull alone. Typically a less experienced ox was yoked with a more experienced one, who provided leadership and direction. But both animals worked together to pull the load. They could spell each other through the day, taking turns bearing the brunt of the load. And when the day was done, both were tired but not exhausted, because they had worked together as a team.  Jesus knows that life has its burdens and responsibilities. Taking on his yoke doesn’t mean that there will be no more burdens to bear, and no more work to be done. What it means is that the burdens are lighter because they are shared. In the Greek, the word “easy” in verse 30 has its roots in the word “kind.” That is to say: Jesus kindly offers to become our yokemate. He invites us to learn how to bear the burdens of life by working beside him. He’s saying that that the heaviness of life will be so much lighter, so much easier, if we share it with him, rather than trying to go it alone.  Barbara Brown Taylor says that we go through all this desperate, panting effort to prove we’re worthy, while all the time Jesus is standing right in front of us, half of a shared yoke across his own shoulders, the other half wide open, and waiting for us. All he asks is that we join him. Nothing more…or less.  Which means we can lay down the self-imposed burdens we carry, those internal ones that underlie the others. The burden of determining our own self-worth, for instance. We can’t do that; only God can do that, and God already has, entirely apart from anything we do. And the burden of self-centeredness, the unspoken but lived-out assumption that our needs and wants take priority over those of others. And the burden of self-sufficiency, the illusion that we really don’t need any help to get through life, not from other people and not from God.  I think of the old Shaker tune: “’Tis a gift to be simple, ‘tis a gift to be free…’tis a gift to come round where we ought to be.” “Come to me… Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me; for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.” This is where we ought to be: alongside Jesus, learning from him how to simply live in response to the goodness of God, and to humbly labor for the good of this world that God loves.  This morning my thoughts turn to a professor I had in seminary, a man named Art. He was tall, had a deep voice, and these great eyebrows that grew all the way across his forehead, in a line. One day, Art told a story. He said that, as he was growing up, his father was extremely demanding. All the children in the family desperately wanted to earn his affection and approval---though none of them really ever could. Art’s father set impossibly high standards. The children became high achievers, excelled in school and athletics. But nothing was ever quite good enough to please their father.  All through high school and college, then, Art was this driven, high-performing young man. After that he went to seminary. Art said maybe he had confused God with his father in his mind, and he figured that the best way to earn God’s love, to finally be pronounced good enough, was to become a minister. In seminary, not surprisingly, he earned straight A’s. Then, one semester, he took a course in preaching.  This was in the days when preaching classes were organized in such a way that each student would take a turn preaching in front of the rest of the class, who would then critique the sermon, i Barbara Brown Taylor, “The Open Yoke,” The Seeds of Heaven: Sermons on the Gospel of Matthew (Louisville, Kentucky, 2004) p. 19 ii For this allusion to Raising Arizona, thanks to Kory Wilcoxson in “Take a Load Off,” a sermon preached at Crestwood Christian Church Disciples of Christ, Lexington, Kentucky, July 3, 2011 often harshly. It was an ordeal, standing in front of those critical, competitive classmates. And Art was the most critical and competitive of them all.  One day a student delivered a mediocre sermon. As soon as he sat down, Art led the charge. With his keen mind and clever tongue, he was brilliant. And merciless. As class was ending that day, the professor asked to speak with him privately for a moment. Art was pleased, expecting to be praised. The other students left the room. Then the professor said, “What were you doing here today?” Art was confused.  The professor answered his own question: “You weren’t trying to help your fellow student. You were tearing him down, tearing him apart, trying to make yourself look good.” He went on, “Don’t you know that you don’t need to do that? You don’t have to prove anything. Don’t you know how good you are?”  Art was stunned. The professor went on: “You carry your insecurities around like a pack on your shoulders. It weighs you down. It gets in the way in your relationships, and it will get in the way of your ministry. ” Art could barely take this in; he was aware that sudden, embarrassing tears were springing to his eyes. Then the professor’s voice became kind, and he said, “Son, you don’t need to carry that pack around anymore. Why don’t you put it down? Just…lay it down.”  Art says: “I put the pack down. Over the years I’ve picked it up again---and I’ve had to lay it down again, and again… But that day, I got a glimpse of what it would be like to live without it. What it would be like to be free, at ease inside myself, at peace.”  Here in worship this morning, what burdens are you carrying? What’s weighing you down, getting in the way of your relationships with other people, and with God? What keeps you from knowing you are loved? What holds you back from living and working alongside Jesus, simply and gladly offering your gifts to the world?  I don’t know what your particular burdens are, but you know. Let the rock in your hand symbolize one of them. A self-imposed burden, perhaps. In a few moments, as we sing, you are invited to come forward, as you feel moved, and drop your stone into this shallow bowl on the altar, here at the foot of the cross, and leave it there. Just lay it down, and step into the yoke that is waiting for you, tailor-made for you, so that your life may be simpler, kindlier, lighter.  You don’t have to go it alone. You have here a community in Christ. And Christ is here, saying, “Come to me, all you who are weary and carrying heavy burdens. …Take my yoke upon you, and you will find rest for your souls.”  Amen.   