“Table Manners” World Communion Sunday at EUMC 10-4-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James text: I Corinthians 11:17-26  Pastors are like people in every other profession: they like to get together and tell stories about the worst things that have happened to them in the course of their work. I know a pastor, for instance, who tells about the time he was conducting a graveside memorial service, and he fell into the open grave. The ground at the edge of the hole gave way, and he slipped right in! Ever since I heard that, whenever I do a graveside service, I watch where I stand.  There are worst-case funeral stories, worst-case wedding stories, even worst-case stories about Holy Communion. Elaine Stanovsky, who is a bishop now, tells of a time when she was presiding at communion at an ecumenical gathering. Some of the participants there, from other denominations, weren’t even sure whether they could receive communion from a woman. So Elaine was nervous. Which is why, I suppose, her hands were shaking when she lifted the round loaf of bread to give thanks. The bread slipped from her hands and went rolling down the center aisle of the church, like a wheel.  Bruce Parker, a mentor to many of us, used to tell of an incident that took place when he was a young pastor assisting an older pastor in the communion service. At that time, they weren’t using a whole loaf of bread as we do now, but those flat white wafers that look like paper coins. The wafers were arranged on a paper doily, on a silver plate. Somehow, when the presiding pastor reached for the plate, his hand caught the doily, and the whole plateful of communion wafers flipped onto the floor.  Bruce, who was supposed to be assisting, immediately got down on all fours under the table and started picking them up, while the older minister just kept reading aloud out of the Prayer Book. It was while Bruce was on his hands and knees when he heard the older minister recite, “We are not worthy, Lord, even to gather the crumbs beneath your table.”  My favorite worst-case scenario, however, comes from Vancouver School of Theology. When I was in seminary there, we had a liturgy professor named David Holeton. David had a long list of things he thought you must do when serving communion: bread at the right height, arms just so. If a student dropped a crumb onto the floor, he made you get down on your knees with your hands behind your back, and pick up the crumbs with your lips. I’ve never known anyone who was so concerned that the mechanics of communion be exactly right.  One day, it was David’s turn to preside at communion in the chapel. One of the students had baked the bread, but the problem was: it was brown and crusty on the outside, but not cooked all the way through. David lifted the bread just so, went to break it, and to his horror, the uncooked center held together in one glutinous string! It was like elastic. He finally had to put the loaf under his arm, to tear it in two. Later, when he served the students who came forward in line, he had to twist each piece of dough from the loaf, and shake his finger to get it off. In our scripture reading for this morning, the apostle Paul is also describing a worst-case scenario of Holy Communion. But in this case, the problem is much worse than rolling bread, flying wafers, or even uncooked dough. Paul is writing to the newly converted Christians in the city of Corinth. He begins with these words: “In what I am about to say, I do not commend you.”  Then Paul goes on to describe how the Corinthians are taking communion. He says, “You gorge yourselves and don’t even think of those who are with you at the same meal!” He says, “What shall I say to you? Shall I commend you in this? No, I shall not.” Paul sounds like a parent scolding children about their table manners: “Don’t talk with your mouth full. Get your elbows off the table.” But it goes much deeper than that. This is a problem not just of form---the mechanics of communion, how to do it properly---but of substance, the meaning of communion itself.  Now, it is helpful to know, here, that the Christians in Corinth were Greeks, recent converts from what was called the “mystery religions.” In the mystery religions, as in the early Christian church, the central act of worship was a sacred meal. But Paul says, “This is not the same kind of meal you are used to.” Because in the mystery religions, the meal during worship was thought to have magical power. You ate this mystical food, and you were supposed to be transported into a heavenly state. The purpose of the ritual was, literally, for individuals to get “high,” to achieve an altered state of consciousness.  The Greeks had a word for this, ekstasis, from which we get our word, “ecstasy.” Worshippers in the mystery religions figured that the more you eat, the more ecstatic you get, so they gorged themselves. When they converted to Christianity, they brought this concept with them. They assumed that Holy Communion, the sacred meal of the Christ-followers, worked the same way. But Paul says to them, “You’ve got it all wrong.” And then he describes the nature of this meal.  The essence of Communion, Paul says, is remembrance. When we take communion, we remember the Last Supper, when Jesus took the bread and cup, passed them to his disciples, and said, “These represent what I’m about to do for you.” In other words, we remember how Jesus gave himself, in life and in death, for us.  Later on in his letter, Paul is explicit about what this means. He says, “God was in Christ, reconciling the world to God, and calling us to be ministers of reconciliation.” The point of communion, then, is not for a bunch of individuals to have some ecstatic spiritual experience. The point is for people to come together, be reconciled with God and one another, and be sent out as Christ’s ministers of reconciliation in this world.  Paul says: therefore, when you come together to take communion, don’t worry too much about things like whether the bread is thoroughly cooked, or whether you accidentally drop it---those are superficial things. Worry about the state of your heart before God, and your relationships with others. If you want to celebrate communion rightly, focus on the things that make for community: like justice, and peace.  Paul lays it right out: “I hear that when you take communion, each one goes ahead with your own meal, while another goes hungry. What?! Do you despise the church of God, and humiliate those who have nothing?”  I’m reminded of a church dinner that I once attended, years ago. You arrived at this dinner, and you were immediately escorted to a table. But after you sat down, and looked around the room, you noticed that something was terribly wrong.  One table, in the center of the room, was beautifully set with candlesticks and fine china, ready for a five-course meal. But that was the only table like that, in the whole room. Nearby were others set with plastic plates, ready for a meal of cafeteria-style food: greasy and starchy, but abundant. But then there were others (many others) that were bare except for one bowl at each place, ready for one serving of rice or soup. And finally, there were several tables that were completely bare. People who had the misfortune to be seated at those tables spent the evening watching their neighbors eat.  The dinner was meant to help us viscerally experience the actual distribution of wealth and poverty in this world, a world in which one out of eight people---half of them children---goes to bed hungry every night. It was an important experience for my family---my children were young at the time---because you know, we always sat down to plenty of nourishing food. And I believe that if one of the world’s hungry children came and stood by our table, then or now, we wouldn’t think of not sharing our food. Can you imagine dishing out heaping plates of food for your own family, and turning to that hungry child, and saying, “None for you!”?  And yet, you and I do it every day. It’s just that that child isn’t standing right there at our table, looking with longing at our plates. That child is eating pop-tarts and Kool-aid in an apartment in Lynnwood, or a scant bowl of rice somewhere in Asia, or languishing in a refugee hospital in Africa, or dying on the streets in India.  The point is: when Christians come together around one table, especially today, on World Communion Sunday, we are supposed to remember that Jesus lived and died for all God’s children, everywhere in the world. We are supposed to renew our commitment to work for a world in which bread is shared, and everyone is fed. For you cannot gorge yourself in front of your hungry brothers and sisters, as the Corinthians did, and expect peace.  Which is the second thing that Paul points out. He says, “I hear that, when you assemble as a church, there is no peace among you, but factions and divisions.” In this, he says, you are making a mockery out of communion. In fact, if you come to the table with resentments or hatred in your heart, he says, “It is not the Lord’s Supper that you eat.”  Throughout Christian history, there have been theological debates about communion. The debates have focused mostly on the elements: do the bread and wine actually become the body of Jesus Christ? Or only symbolically? And when, exactly, does the transformation take place?  Paul’s answer would be this. You’re focusing on the wrong things! This is not a mystery religion. The miracle of communion doesn’t happen when the elements of bread and wine change into some kind of mystical, magical food.  The miracle of communion happens when people come to God, with all their flaws and failings, in the midst of an unjust and brutal world, and are reconciled with one another. It happens when you walk into a church and see the Roman master freely serving the slave, a church where there are no reserved seats, and no empty bowls, and where, as Paul writes, “There is no Jew nor Greek, no slave nor free, no male nor female, but all are one in Christ Jesus.”  It’s not what’s on the altar that becomes the mystical Body of Christ. It’s the congregation, gathered together around one table, that becomes the Body of Christ in this world.  Do you ever sit, during worship in this church, and watch people coming forward to receive communion? Sometimes, as people come forward, I find myself suddenly all choked up. And I’m not even sure why, except that I know it has something to do with bringing to God our deep yearnings for justice and peace and reconciliation. It has to do with people from all walks of life holding out our hands for bread, acknowledging our common dependence on God, and our need for each other. There is something about taking communion together that makes a fierce tenderness toward all people rise like a lump in the throat.  May God bless the worldwide communion of the church this day.  Amen.  