“How Long, O Lord, Must I Cry to You for Help?” Children’s Sabbath EUMC 10-18-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Habakkuk 1:1-4, 2:1-5 & Matthew 18:1-6  A clergy friend tells about a woman in his congregation who was dying. As the woman lay in a hospital bed, her adult daughter sat in the chair beside her. The daughter was holding her hand and saying what was on her heart. At one point she said, “You were such a good mother to me!”  At that, her mother opened her eyes and declared, “I still am your mother!”  That’s a bit how I am feeling this morning. Since the announcement was made this past week that I will be retiring in June, I have received gracious words of appreciation from many of you. Thank you so much for your calls and e-mails! You are the most loving congregation.  At the same time….this morning I want to say: I still am your pastor! We have nine more months together! And we have more vital ministry to do!  Turn to our text for today. It comes from the Hebrew prophet Habakkuk, who lived seven centuries before the birth of Christ. Like all biblical prophets, Habakkuk cries out in lament and protest over all the injustice in this world. As our text begins, he is calling out to God, saying, “O Lord, how long shall I cry for help, and you will not listen? Or cry to you ‘Violence!’ and you will not save? Why do you make me see wrong-doing and look at trouble?”  It’s a familiar cry…in every age. People of faith perceive how far off we are from what God intends for our life together, and wonder why injustice and poverty exist. The prophet’s cry comes to our lips today, on this Children’s Sabbath, as we consider the plight of children in our world, our nation, and here in our own community.  Consider the following statistical snapshot of children and poverty in America:  . Every 34 seconds, in our country, a baby is born into poverty. . Every 47 seconds a child is abused or neglected. . Every 56 seconds a baby is born without health insurance. . Every 67 seconds a baby is born into extreme poverty. . Every 1-and-a-half minutes a baby is born at low birth weight. . Every 22 minutes a baby dies before his or her first birthday. . Every 3 hours and 15 minutes a child or teen is killed by guns. . Every 5-and-a-half hours a child is killed by abuse or neglect.  It’s hard to fathom how all this could be true. How is it that one in five children in the United States, the richest country in the world, lives below the poverty line? The U.S. now has the second highest rate of child poverty among the 35 most advanced economies in the world!i Poor children are hungry, sick, and often homeless. Check out the insert inside your bulletin this morning. Notice that Washington State has 61,000 homeless children! And as Jennifer said earlier, in our own Edmonds School District, there are 312 homeless students, a number that’s expected to increase as the school year goes on.ii  If statistics make you glaze over, I invite you to picture in your mind a child who you know, personally. Imagine him getting on the bus in the morning, dizzy with hunger. Imagine her going to school, on these chilly mornings, without a warm coat. Imagine a whole generation of such children looking back someday and realizing that we, their exceptionally prosperous predecessors, were not willing to make the investments necessary to ensure that the next generation could enjoy the same blessings we have known.  Jay Rockefeller, former U.S. Senator and Chairman of the National Commission on Children, says flatly, “We are hypocrites. We say we love our children, yet they have become the poorest group in America.”iii We are giving them crumbling schools and inadequate health care, not to mention a fouled environment. Marian Wright Edelman, founder of the Children’s Defense Fund, says that if compassion weren’t enough to motivate us to do better by our children, self-interest should be. “The inattention to children by our society,” she warns, “poses a greater threat to our safety, productivity, and harmony than any external enemy.”iv  The reality of children in poverty, on a global and national scale---and here in our own community---can bring out the prophet in us. Heartbroken, we lament with Habakkuk: “O Lord, how long shall I cry for help, and you will not listen?” Faced with the harsh facts, we protest, “Why do you make me see wrong-doing and look at trouble?”  Again and again in scripture, prophets ask, “How long, O Lord?” And God, who continues to provide enough resources to meet the basic needs of all God’s children, turns the question back on us: “How long, O my people? You tell me.” Then God tells the prophet what we must do. Our text in Habakkuk goes on: “Then the Lord answered me and said: Write the vision; make it plain on tablets, so that a runner may read it. For there is still a vision for the appointed time...”  In other words, Habakkuk tells the people: “Make the biblical vision of human life as God intends it---including children being fed and cared for---visible to others. Make it plain, so that it can be seen and spread.” Or as Gandhi said, “Be the change you want to see in the world.” Quaker Jim Corbett speaks of what he calls “civil initiative.” The injustices of this world are resisted most effectively, he says, not by fighting or argument, but by the visible, lived alternative of a community that steadfastly affirms and demonstrates what is holy and good.  The question becomes: how will we make the vision of God’s will so visible that even those hurrying through their daily routines can see it? How will we take and spread the message, becoming heralds of the good news of God’s intended justice for children?v  This morning I want to make a proposal. I made it to our Church Council, the governing body of this church, two weeks ago. They’ll be voting on it in December. See what you think.  As you know, our overarching mission as a United Methodist Church is to “make disciples of Jesus Christ for the transformation of the world.” Here at Edmonds United Methodist Church, we live out that mission as we “Worship God. Grow in faith. & Serve the world.” Those have been our watchwords for the past seven years: Worship. Grow. Serve. And we have steadily worked at improving our ministries in all of those areas. What I want to suggest this morning is that under the area of “Serve the world,” we focus our efforts, so that instead of trying to do something about every cause that comes along, or becoming ineffective because we’re trying to address too many, we concentrate on doing one thing really well. We have to trust that other churches and groups will focus on other important causes. But let this be our piece. I propose that as a congregation, we adopt a mission focus on helping children and families in poverty, in our community and beyond, for the next 3-5 years.  You know, when you are trying to discern what God wants you to do in your life, one way to begin is to ask: what are my strengths? Writer Frederick Buechner defines vocation as the place “where your deep gladness meets the world’s deep needs.”vi So look at what you’re already doing, and what you love to do, and see if you can identify a common thread or theme.  Here at this church, we are already engaged in major ministries that focus on the needs of children and families in poverty. Our food bank serves over 300 families each week. Our Children’s Center offers quality preschool and after-school programs. Our Toy Shop provides Christmas gifts to over 1000 families in need. Our tutoring ministry provides one-on-one tutoring to at-risk students as well as dinner for their families every week.  In one way or another, all of these help children and families in poverty. And if we decided to intensively focus our energies in this one area, we could do more! We could offer more scholarships so that poor children could come to the Children’s Center. We could do the same with Vacation Bible School. We could ask our Advocacy and Public Witness Team to continually alert us to opportunities to advocate for children and families in poverty.  Even seemingly unrelated areas of our church life could be turned to this end: our concerts could become benefits for these ministries, for instance. And we could seek out other churches and groups who are similarly focused, and work together common goals. We are doing that today as we establish a partnership with Washington Kids in Transition. We could become known as a church that cares deeply about children and families in poverty.  And as you know, we’ve recently sold a piece of church property. We will soon be engaged in deciding how to invest the proceeds so that some of the interest generated can be used for new mission projects. If the Council were to vote in December to approve this proposal, that would guide our decision-making about new and future ministries.  For instance, what if we were to renovate our parsonage and turn it into a center providing much-needed infant and toddler care for struggling families? Or transitional housing for homeless families? Or a home for an immigrant family that we might welcome and adopt? Hopefully, we will soon be soliciting what basically amounts to simplified grant proposals from you for how the land proceeds can best be used to “write the vision and make it plain”---as in, showing forth, in our community, God’s passionate desire that families be helped out of poverty, and God’s children receive what they need to live and grow.  You see? I’m still your pastor. And there are exciting months of ministry ahead. Amen. i These figures come from the website of the Children’s Defense Fund, which sponsors the Children’s Sabbath. See reports at http://www.childrensdefense.org/library/. ii Data received from LeAnne Brisbois, Homeless Liaison, Edmonds School District, this week iii Quoted in “Shameful Bequests to the Next Generation,” Time, October 8, 1990, p. 43 iv Ibid, p. 43 v See the following sources, offered by the Children’s Defense Fund: Sanderson, J. E. “Habakkuk.” Women’s Bible Commentary. Edited by C. A. Newsome and S.H. Ringe. Louisville: Westminster John Knox Press, 1998. p. . 238.; Richards, K.H. “Habakkuk.” The HarperCollins Study Bible. Edited by W.A. Meeks et al. New York: HarperCollins Publishers, 1993. p. 1397.; and Hiebert, T. “The Book of Habakkuk.” The New Interpreters Bible Vol. VII. Edited by L. E. Keck et al. Nashville: Abingdon Press, 1996. vi This quotation is often attributed to Parker J. Palmer. Actually in his book, Let Your Life Speak, he is quoting from Frederick Buechner, Wishful Thinking: A Seeker's ABC (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1993), p. 119. 