“I Was Hungry…” a sermon for Food Bank Sunday at EUMC 10-25-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Isaiah 58:6-9a & Matthew 25:31-36 Jim Wallis, the well-known Christian writer and social activist, tells of an experience that strongly shaped his life.i He was a first-year seminary student when he and a band of eager classmates decided to do a thorough study to find every verse in the Bible that dealt with the poor. They scoured the Old and New Testaments for every single reference to the subject of poverty, and how the people of God are called to respond. To their amazement, they found several thousand biblical verses on this subject! They found that God’s response to poverty is the second most prominent theme in the Hebrew Scriptures--second only to idolatry, with which is it often linked. And in the New Testament, one in every sixteen verses is about wealth and poverty! Then they decided to try what has become a famous experiment. One member of the group took an old Bible and a pair of scissors and began the long process of literally cutting out every single biblical text about the poor. It took him a very long time. As he worked, the books of the prophets were decimated. He found God speaking through the prophet Isaiah, for instance, in our first reading for today: “Is not this the fast that I choose: …to share your bread with the hungry, and bring the homeless poor into your house; [and] when you see the naked, to cover them?” He cut that passage out. He cut out everything the prophets had to say about how nations, rulers, and all of us are instructed to treat people who are poor. Much of the Psalms---in which God is seen as the defender and deliverer of the poor---also disappeared. And when the seminarian got to the New Testament, he had a lot of work to do. He began with the prayer of a peasant woman named Mary, whose Magnificat prophesied the meaning of the coming of Jesus: “He has…lifted up the lowly; he has filled the hungry with good things, and sent the rich empty away.” Then there was Jesus’ first sermon in which---hearkening back to Isaiah---he proclaimed his own mission statement: “The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because God has anointed me to bring good news to the poor.” In the Sermon on the Mount, and especially the Beatitudes, Jesus declared that in his kingdom, the blessed ones are the poor, the meek, and the persecuted. Clearly, those passages had to go. Same with the accounts about how, after the Spirit had come upon them, members of the early church began to practice economic sharing. And the apostle Paul saying that “there was not a needy one among them.” And the stuff from John about how you don’t have the love of God in you unless you open your heart to the needy. Snip, snip, snip. When the seminarian was finally done with all his editorial cuts, that Bible was so sliced up, it was literally falling apart in his hands. Which was a dramatic way of uncovering a simple truth. That is: the great bulk of the Bible’s teachings about how God’s people are to live in this world have to do with how we respond to people who are poor. Nowhere is this emphasis clearer than in today’s gospel reading, from Matthew 25, where Jesus says: 1When the Son of Man comes in glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory. All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats, and he will put the sheep at his right hand and the goats at the left. Then the king will say to those at his right hand, ‘Come, you that are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world; for I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me, I was naked and you gave me clothing, I was sick and you took care of me, I was in prison and you visited me.’ Jesus says, “As you did it to one of the least of these, my sisters and brothers, you did it to me.” Jesus seems to be promising---to those of us born centuries too late to meet the historical Jesus in person---that the closest we can come to a transformative face-to-face encounter with Christ is to aid and be fully present to poor. Conversely, Jesus says, “If you failed to do it to the least of these, you failed to do it to me.” That is, if you walk past someone who is hungry or thirsty or poor or sick or ill-clothed without helping them, you’ve walked past me. Which is sobering, isn’t it? Mother Teresa once said about this Scripture: “Jesus comes to us in the distressing disguise of the poor.”ii What’s so striking about this passage is that most of the people gathered before the throne of Christ in this story really believe that they are his followers! They’re stunned to learn that they will be separated and judged by how they have responded to the poor! It comes as a shock to hear this message from Jesus, that God’s ultimate measure of our lives will not be about how often we pray or go to church, or about our sexual ethics, or about church leadership and success in ministry, or even about the right religious beliefs---it’s not about beliefs at all! According to Jesus, it’s not our religiosity, but our human kindness, that determines our eternal destiny. You and I might contemplate that sliced-up Bible that Jim Wallis holds up---a Bible minus its teachings about wealth and poverty, reduced to paper lace---and start to shut down inside. It’s just…overwhelming. We might long to go home and put a pillow over our heads, to drown out the crying of all the impoverished people in the world. We might listen to this teaching of Jesus about the sheep and the goats, and think sadly, helplessly, even angrily: well, I guess I’m a goat, then. Because I’m not Mother Teresa! I’m not ready to make helping the poor the focus of my life. Besides, there is so much need in this world, it’s staggering. What could I possibly do to change anything? I’m helped, at this point, when I go back and read our gospel text again: “I was hungry and you fed me, I was naked and you clothed me…” Notice that the pronoun Jesus uses is singular, “I.” It’s not plural. It’s not on a grand scale, but a personal one. Jesus doesn’t say, “All the millions of poor people in the world are your responsibility, and you must help them.” He says simply, “I’m the person right in front of you, the one in need, the one you can help, or from whom you can turn away.” 2I like the story that former President Jimmy Carter tells in his book, Sources of Strength. It’s about a Cuban pastor named Eloy Cruz who had a wonderful rapport with Puerto Rican immigrants, very poor people. He seemed to be able to influence the direction of their lives in positive ways. So President Carter asked about the secret to his success. Pastor Cruz was embarrassed to be signaled out, but he finally said this, “We only need to have two loves in our lives: for God, and for the person who happens to be in front of us at any time.”iii A woman named Heidi Baker, who helps to care for 3,000 orphans around the world, says the same thing. When asked for advice about how to deal with a world of massive pain and need, she answers with the words that are printed at the top of your worship guide this morning: “It’s not complicated. Just love the one in front of you.” She calls it “loving the One,” with a capital O. That’s what Jesus did, she says. Whomever the one in front of him was, he was devoted to their well-being. He helped them. He loved them. Think about that for a moment. Imagine yourself leaving the house tomorrow. Who will be standing in front of you? Is it the child at the bus stop, who hasn’t had breakfast? Or the tattooed barista at Starbuck’s, who could really use a generous tip? Is it the single mother who drops her child at the same school that your child attends, the one who is on her way to work and already looks exhausted at 8:00 in the morning? What about the neighbor who is older, and confused about the month or day? Even if you can’t save the world, you can affect one person. You can love one. You can help one. A card for the cashier at the grocery store, a meal for the homeless, an offer to babysit, an evening of tutoring for one student, once a week. That’s not so hard. In doing that, one will change one, which will change one, and maybe you really will change the world. So often we think we can’t make much difference, so we don’t do anything at all. Many of us have never done so much as sold an old lawn mower and used the money to help the poor! Mother Teresa used to say, “We cannot all do great things. But we can do small things with great love.”iv Start with the person in front of you, the one in need. Extend kindness to them, in whatever way you can. And see where that takes you. We have an example of that right here in this church. Peggy Kennedy, one of our beloved long-time members, is as close to Mother Teresa as I will probably ever get. You may know the story of how she and Gretchen Dixon, 34 years ago, responded to a request to provide food for our hungry neighbors here in Edmonds. They started with bags of canned goods in a closet downstairs---it was actually an unfinished restroom, which is about as humble as you can get. They were soon feeding 20 people a week, and thought it might last for as long as six weeks…. But the need kept growing. And Peggy and Gretchen, gradually joined by other volunteers, kept offering food—along with warmth, humor, and human kindness----to everyone who came seeking help. One, one, one. After a few years they moved into a larger room downstairs, which is now used for sorting food. They acquired refrigerators and freezers. They purchased trucks for transporting donations from local grocery stores. They moved into the even larger area in Fellowship Hall. Peggy came onto our church staff as Food Bank Director. She partnered with other organizations, and welcomed volunteers from other churches and the wider community. 3Have you ever gone down to the Food Bank here at church, on a Tuesday morning? It is an incredible operation! It now serves an average of 1500 people every week! You go downstairs and you see piles of produce, bread and meat. And people from all walks of life, some with children in tow, people with shopping carts so that they have the dignity of choosing what their families will eat, people laughing, talking and working side by side, men and women, young and old, volunteers and friends---you feel the presence of Christ down there, in their midst. You feel renewed hope for the world. It’s not that responding to poverty doesn’t include trying to influence public policies on a larger scale---not long ago our congregation mobilized to write over a thousand letters to our legislators. It’s that you start where you are. You do what you can for the person who is in front of you, the one who is hungry or poor. After a time, you will start asking why they are poor. And you go from there. Each person in need, an opportunity to encounter Jesus Christ! Challenging, yes, and sobering. But also a promise of the Presence of holiness. “As you do it to the least of these, my brothers and sisters, you do it to me.” Amen. iJimWallishastoldthisstorymanytimesinthecourseof preachingandpublicspeaking.it canalsobefoundinhisbook,God’sPolitics:WhytheRightGetsItWrongandtheLeftDoesn’tGetIt(NewYork:HarperCollinsPublisher,2005)pp.212-..214iiThis is awell-..knownquotation,widely availableinbooksandon-..line.iiiJimmyCarter,SourcesofStrength:MeditationsonScripture foraLivingFaith(NewYork:ThreeRiversPress,1997)ThisisthelaststoryinhisIntroductiontothebook.ivAgain,thisquotation byMotherTeresaiswidelyavailable,in manybooksand on-..line.4