“Saints Preserve Us!” preached at EUMC on All Saints Day 11/1/15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Hebrews 11:29-12:2 & II Cor. 13:11-12  This week, as my mind turned toward today, All Saints Day, I remembered a person who I hadn’t thought about in a long time.  His name was Muddhata. He lived in a tiny house just on the other side of the fence in my backyard. My family lived on the edge of the American naval base in Yokohama, Japan. Just beyond our backyard fence was the world of Japanese civilians, a world into which I, as a kindergartner, was forbidden to go by myself. But I did go. When my mother wasn’t looking, I crept through the gate between our house and Muddhata’s, and went to visit this old Japanese man who was my friend.  I was five years old. Muddhata was 88---I know because even though he spoke no English and I spoke very little Japanese, he showed me his age by holding up his fingers and letting me count, all the way up to 88. Muddhata and his wife lived in a wooden house with paper walls and sliding doors. They fed me crackers flecked with green seaweed. When I showed Muddhata that I had lost a tooth, he laughed and opened his mouth, revealing that he had only one yellow tooth in his whole head.  Somewhere along the line, my parents learned about my friendship with Muddhata. On my sixth birthday, they let me take pieces of pink birthday cake over to him and his wife. In return, Muddhata said, he had a present for me. But in order to receive it, I had to come to his house very early the following morning, just as the sun was beginning to rise.  You can imagine my excitement the next day, when I got up, put on my jacket and sneakers, and crept in the half-light of dawn through the fence to Muddhata’s house. He was there, waiting for me. But instead of taking me into the house as usual, Muddhata took my hand and began to lead me down the winding flight of wooden steps, built into the earth, that led past his house and down to the village below, where I was forbidden to go. Down and down we went, past clumps of bamboo, past the old bicycle that Muddhata and his wife used for transportation, past tall rushes and a bubbling pond.  But then Muddhata stopped suddenly, placed his hands on my shoulders, and turned me slowly around. There before us, suspended between the rushes, was his gift. It was a huge, intricately woven spider web, as large as myself, and hung with dewdrops flashing fire in the morning light.  I will never forget that childhood experience. It comes singing and soaring to me, down through the years: the memory of an old man and a little girl, standing together in silence, mesmerized by the beauty of a spider web. Muddhata’s gift, the gift of helping me to see ordinary life in all its splendor, is one of the most precious I have ever received.  Muddhata is long dead by now. My family moved back to the States when I was in second grade, and I never saw him or heard from him again. All these years later, I wonder if he ever had any idea of the gift he gave to my life. But whether he knew it or not, Muddhata was a saint.  The word “saint” is one that needs some reviving in our time. Five hundred years ago, when Western Christianity split into the Roman Catholic Church and Protestantism, many of our Protestant forbears decided that one of the things they didn’t believe in was saints. That’s what Roman Catholics believed in. My Southern Methodist grandparents would have been shocked by what we are doing here today, celebrating All Saints Sunday. That’s what Catholics do, they would have said. Protestants don’t do saints!  But the ecumenical movement of the last seventy years changed that. It was as if members of the same family, whose ancestors split apart four hundred years ago, began to get together. They discovered that each branch had kept some family treasures in custody all those years, treasures that were lost to the other branch, but belonged to the heritage of both. All Saints is one of those treasures.  So, for instance, we are learning that in the early church of Britain, which I explored on my renewal leave two years ago, it was believed that the veil that separates the living and the dead is thin---so thin that we can talk to departed loved ones, in the most matter-of-fact way. We can seek their guidance, and receive their help and support. And this, Celtic Christians said, was especially true at the autumn Festival of All Saints, which they understood to be a “thin place” in time.  In recent years, then, Protestants have been rediscovering All Saints, and restoring it to its rightful place as one of the four high holy days of the Christian year, along with Christmas, Easter, and Pentecost. All Saints belongs to all Christians.  Something else has been discovered, too, in the reclaiming of All Saints Day. That is that the word “saint” originally did not refer to a group of people who’ve been canonized by the pope. When Paul writes, in today’s reading from I Corinthians, “All the saints greet you,” he is referring to the members of his churches! The word “saint,” as it is used in the Bible, simply means someone through whom the love of God is revealed. All of us are called to be saints.  Muddhata was a saint in my life, because the love of God---for this beautiful world, and for a little girl like me---was communicated through him. I could list other saints in my childhood for you. Aunt Alice, the kind neighbor lady who treated me to bedtime stories and Beeman’s gum. Mr. Boothby, the 5th grade teacher, who believed in me and expected the most from me. Marie Long, the babysitter who sent M & M’s for my Christmas stocking every year, even after I was grown…  I could go on and on—if you let me!---with my own catalogue of saints. Which is what the author of the letter to the Hebrews is doing, in our second reading for today. In a famous passage known as “the roll call of the saints,” he lists individuals from biblical history who have communicated the Spirit of God through the quality of their lives: Abraham and Sarah, who trusted in God’s promises. Moses, who led his people out of slavery; and Rahab, who helped them enter the Promised Land. He continues: “And what more shall I say? For time would fail me to tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jepthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets.” This goes on for some time, working up to the saints of his own time, men and women who were martyrs of the early church. A roll call of the saints has a particular function: to remind us of the people who have gone before us, whose lives have contributed to our own. For all of us have been shaped and formed by the influences of others. If you yourself have any strength of character, any sense of your own worth, any values to live by or dreams to live for, you probably owe that to certain individuals who you can name today. Who is on your personal “roll call of the saints”? Today is the day to remember and thank God for them. They have given you the foundation on which you have built your life.  Two weeks ago, I had the joy of welcoming a new grandson into the world. At one point, I sat holding him, rocking to help him go to sleep. I sat there in the dimmed room, rocking and crooning a lullaby, and suddenly I had a mental picture of all the mothers before me---my mother and her mother and a host of nameless other mothers and grandmothers, going all the way back in time, who must have done exactly the same thing, singing and rocking their babies to sleep.  I thought of all the generations of parents who have prayed over their children, laughed and cried over them, made sacrifices to give them a better life. I thought of my father, who died of a heart attack at age 54, without ever getting to retire and enjoy the fruits of his labors. And I wished I could lift up my grandson, finally asleep in my arms, and say, “Daddy, look! Look at who has come after you, and inherited the legacy of your love for us, and all your hard work.” And I wondered, there in the dusky light, if my father saw.  The roll call of the saints has another function, too. Not only does it remind us of the people who have gone before us, whose lives have blessed our own. It also helps us to take our place in the grand scheme of things, knowing that what we do, and the way we live, will contribute to the lives of those who come after us.  The writer of Hebrews expresses this with a vivid image. He says: we are like runners in a race, and all of these saints are like runners who’ve gone before us, and who are now in the grandstands, cheering us on. Imagine all the saints who have been part of this congregation over the years, encouraging us today. “Our race is run,” they say, “and now it’s your turn.” Now it’s your turn to open a child’s eyes to the beauty of a spider web. Your turn to extend the kindness, make the pie, write the book, work the garden, rock the baby----or whatever is given to you, in your particular vocation as a saint, to do.  “Therefore,” says the writer of our text in Hebrews, “since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with perseverance the race that is before us.” For that’s how we thank them, the saints we have known. We honor them by keeping alive and sharing with others the love, the strength, the faith, and the hope they have shared with us.  In just a few moments, we will be taking communion together, and lighting candles for those whose lives we are remembering and celebrating today. I will be lighting a candle for Muddhata. I will be thinking of my mother and father. Who will you be thinking of?  Let us celebrate our communion with God, with one another, and with all the saints. Amen. 