“Redeeming Darkness” a sermon preached at EUMC 11-15-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Exodus 20:18-21 & Ps. 139:1-12  On Monday of this past week, my friend Anne came for a visit. We’ve known each other since college days. We call each other our “same time next year” friend because, although we’ve lived in different parts of the country for almost forty years now, we’ve been getting together at least once a year to catch up on each other’s lives.  This year Anne had lots of stories to tell, because she and her husband had just returned to the States after living for three years in Kenya. There, as the caretakers of a huge wildlife reserve, they had lived in the center of vast open spaces. I was eager to hear all about it, and at one point I asked, “Now that you’re back, what do you miss about your time in Africa?”  Without hesitation, Anne answered: “I miss the darkness.” She explained, “I miss the dark nights---home now, in the city, we can hardly see any stars! You might even forget they are there! And I miss the silence…Well, not exactly silence,” she amended. “On the reserve at night, it was so quiet that you could hear the insects, and small animals in the grass, and large animals on the move.”  It was strange, hearing Anne say, “I miss the darkness.” Because as she spoke, I was in the process of reading a book in preparation for today’s sermon, and to which I am greatly indebted this morning. The book, by Barbara Brown Taylor, is called Learning to Walk in the Dark. i  Taylor, who is an Episcopal priest, acknowledges that darkness is often associated with the things that scare us. In our Bible, for instance, there are about a hundred references to darkness, most of them suggesting danger and death. When God is angry with people, they are plunged into darkness. Plagues of locusts darken the land. Darkness becomes biblical shorthand for that which is sinister, sinful, or tragic. Jesus comes as light into the world, the gospel writer says, but “the world loved darkness rather than the light.” On the day Jesus dies, from noon until three, darkness covers the earth.  Visit almost any church today, including this one, and you can still hear this kind of religious language: “Deliver us, O God, from the powers of darkness. Shine into our hearts the brightness of your Spirit, and protect us from the perils of the night.”ii So we learn that darkness is evil, scary, and just plain bad. Light, on the other hand, is synonymous with goodness, holiness, and life.  There are some problems, however, with representing and understanding the world in this way. For one thing, what does it say to---and about---people with dark skins? Or those who are blind? For another, is it really helpful to divide up the world, and all human experience, into light and dark, holy and unholy, as if God were not everywhere?  And f we associate God only with the sunny aspects of human experience, what happens when darkness falls on your life: when you lose your job, say, or your marriage falls apart, or you become depressed, or you lie in bed at night despairing over the ice caps melting or the latest terrorist attack, or you pray hard for something that doesn’t happen, or you begin to doubt that God exists at all? Is the darkness your own fault, because you don’t have enough faith? And if God is identified only with the light, does that mean we are left to deal with great portions of human experience—things like loneliness, loss, uncertainty, suffering and death---on our own?  We go back to the Bible and look again, more deeply. And we make a discovery. We notice that in the Bible, lots of important things happen in the dark. In Genesis, God creates in the darkness. God takes the patriarch Abraham outside at night to look at the stars, and there in the darkness Abraham decides to trust God. Abraham’s grandson, Jacob, wrestles with an angel through the night, and is blessed. Jacob’s son, Joseph, dreams at night and receives God’s messages. Once you start looking for it, all through the Bible you find God showing up and doing things in the dark!  The Exodus from Egypt happens at night. Manna falls from heaven during the night. Jesus is born in the darkness of a cave---what we picture as a wooden stable in Bethlehem was actually a cave---and the resurrection, too, takes place in a cave’s thick darkness. Through the prophet Isaiah, God says, “I will give you the treasures of darkness and riches hidden in secret places, so that you may know that it is I, the Lord, the God of Israel, who calls you by your name.”iii  Turn to our first reading for this morning, from the Book of Exodus. Having escaped from slavery in Egypt, the Hebrews have entered the wilderness of Sinai. They’re encamped at the base of a mountain. Three times they send their leader, Moses, up the mountain, to receive a word from God. On his third ascent there is thunder and lightning, the blast of a trumpet, and a dense cloud of smoke on the mountain. In fear and trembling, Moses ascends all the way to the summit, where, as our text puts it, he “drew near to the thick darkness where God was.”iv He encounters God---the mysterium tremendum, the Holy Mystery---in the midst of deep, dazzling darkness.  Have you ever noticed this before? In the Bible, God is present in both light and darkness. In our second reading for today, the Psalmist proclaims, “…the night is as bright as the day, for darkness is as light to you.”v God acts in the darkness as well as in the light. God shows up in the midst of darkness, and meets us there.  One of the early church fathers, a monk named Gregory of Nyssa, read this text in Exodus as a description of the spiritual life. He wrote, “Moses’ vision began with light. Afterward God spoke to him in a cloud. But when Moses rose higher and became more perfect, he saw God in the darkness.”vi This is how the spiritual journey goes, he said. It takes you on a path that winds through shadows as well as patches of light, and God is in them both. In fact, you should not be surprised when you go through times when God seems hidden: this is a sign that like Moses, you are drawing closer to the splendor of God, which shines forth in darkness.  A Christian mystic, writing in the 14th Century, says the same thing. Perhaps in college you too read the book called The Cloud of Unknowing. I still have a battered copy in my study. The anonymous author writes, “This darkness and cloud is always between you and God, no matter what you do…and it prevents you from seeing [God] clearly by the light of your own understanding in your reason... So set yourself to rest in this darkness for as long as you can, always crying out after [the One] who you love. For if you are to experience or see [God] at all, insofar as it is possible here, it must always be in this cloud and in this darkness.”vii  There is great wisdom here. I think of our emotional lives: isn’t it true that when we experience what might be called “the dark emotions”---things like fear, grief, and despair---the way to healing and transformation isn’t by trying to avoid, deny or distract ourselves from the darkness, but by willingness to enter it with courage and trust and curiosity? It may not be what we want to hear, but when it comes to the dark forest of these emotions, the only way out is through.viii  I think of our intellectual lives: isn’t it true that the more we learn, the more we realize we don’t know? And the more we know, the more aware we are of the enormity of what remains unknown? This is why ignorance is cocky and wisdom is humble. Sometimes I think that if I live long enough and become wise enough, I will realize that I don’t know anything at all.  And I think of my own spiritual life thus far. Yes, there have been times when God has seemed gloriously present and real! Like bright sunlight on a summer day, obvious and undeniable. But there have also been times in my journey when I’ve stumbled along in the dark, having to let go of my concepts and certainties about God, learning to trust the God who refuses to be defined or contained. And I’ve learned that although I cannot grasp and hold God, God holds me.  There have been times in my life that I’ve experienced an absence of God so dense that it feels like presence. And I’ve cried out in the darkness for the Holy One, who, as it turns out, will not appear on demand, but who shows up in the most unexpected ways.  Is this true in your spiritual journey, too? I have to say, at this point, as I am growing older, and friends are beginning to die, and the end of my own life is appearing on the horizon, I appreciate anew what the Psalmist means by “the valley of the shadow of death.” But I am learning to walk in the dark. I’m learning that it is possible to trust God in all things. And I’m learning that there are some things you can see in the darkness---like the brilliance of stars in a night sky---that you can’t see in the light of day. As the poet Wendell Berry writes, “…the darkness, too, blooms and sings.”ix  Barbara Brown Taylor comes to the same conclusion. She write this: “When, despite all my best efforts, the lights have gone off in my life,…plunging me into the kind of darkness that turns my knees to water, nonetheless I have not died. …[Instead] I have learned things in the dark that I could never have learned in the light, things that have saved my life over and over again, so that there is really only one logical conclusion. I need darkness as much as I need light.”x  We are now heading into the darkest time of the year. Soon we’ll enter the season of Advent, which is traditionally marked by somber joy and quiet expectation.  Shall we approach this time, together, with courage and curiosity? Shall we dare to speak into the gathering darkness, speak of our fears and hopes and longings? Shall we listen attentively, like my friend Anne, who learned in Africa to love the living, breathing darkness?  Shall we trust that God will meet us there? Amen. i Barbara Brown Taylor, Learning to Walk in the Dark (New York; HarperCollins Publisher, 2014) I love this book and thoroughly commend it to you! ii Taylor quotes this prayer, p. 6. It may be from the Episcopal prayer book. iii Isaiah 45:3 iv Exodus 20:21b v Psalm 139:12 vi I learned about this in seminary, and Taylor quotes it on p. 48. Her source is Commentary on the Song of Songs, Homily 11, quoted by Phillip Kariatlis in “Dazzling Darkness: The Mystic or Theophanic Theology of Gregory of Nyssa,” Phromena 27, no. 2 (2012) pp. 99-123 vii Taylor quotes this too, on. p. 48. It comes from the classic Medieval work, The Cloud of Unknowing, ed. Emilie Griffin (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1981) p. 15 viii For more on this, see one of my favorite books, from which I have quoted before, Miriam Greenspan’s Healing through the Dark Emotions: The Wisdom of Grief, Fear, and Despair (Boston: Shambhala Publications, 2003) Thanks to Doug Anderson for recommending this book. ix This fragment appears on p. 91 of Taylor’s book and comes from Selected Poems of Wendell Berry (Berkeley, CA: Counterpoint Press, 1988) x Taylor, p. 5  