“Blessed to Give” Commitment Sunday at EUMC 11-22-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James texts: Proverbs 11:24-25 & II Cor. 9:6-15  Last Sunday, you may remember, I preached a sermon called “Redeeming Darkness.” Two days later, we had the windstorm and power outage, plunging many of our neighborhoods into darkness! And I enjoyed the text messages that some of you sent, saying things like: “Kathlyn, there is something peaceful about this darkness.” And this: “I was planning to work tonight, but instead I’m playing cards with my family by candlelight. We’re redeeming the darkness!”  Last week, too, we lifted up the biblical scene in which God takes Abraham outside to look up and marvel at the night sky. God promises Abraham that he and his wife Sarah will be blessed with descendants as numerous as the stars. Not only will they be blessed, God says, but they will be a blessing to others. Their family will become a great nation, and all the families of the earth will be blessed through them.  Which brings us to our theme for today. That is: that God desires abundance for all people, and this is how it’s accomplished. Abraham and Sarah will receive great blessings, and blessing will flow through them to others, for the benefit of all.  Notice this theme in all of our scripture readings for today. There’s the saying of Jesus, printed at the top of your worship guide: “Give, and it will be given to you. A good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over.”i And our reading from the Book of Proverbs: “Whoever brings blessing will be enriched, and one who waters will himself be watered.” And from the apostle Paul in his Second Letter to Corinthians: “The one who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and the one who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully.”  In all three of these scripture lessons, the picture is one of mutuality and reciprocity, blessings flowing back and forth. I love how the evangelist Billy Graham describes this biblical principle. He says: “God has given us two hands--one to receive with and the other to give with. We are not cisterns made for hoarding; we are channels made for sharing.”ii  We might picture it this way. Imagine that each of our lives is a cup, or a chalice. Blessings from God pour into it, as God poured blessings into the lives of Abraham and Sarah, for the blessing of the world. That’s how it’s supposed to work: the cup is perpetually being filled, and perpetually flowing over into the lives of others. As the Psalmist says, “My cup overflows.”iii  But if the cup is never poured out---if God’s blessings are received and hoarded rather than shared---there reaches a point where nothing more can go in. The life-giving flow is stilled. In the same way, if the cup is poured out and poured out but never filled, there comes a time when its store is depleted. And again, the circulation stops. In order for God’s blessings to be multiplied for the good of all, there must be a continuous process of both inflow and outflow.  Or picture it this way, with the symbol of infinity. [It appears on screen.] In the divine economy, the continuous circulation of blessings leads to abundance for all. What God intends for us is a never-ending process of giving and receiving, giving and receiving. This principle of circulation may seem like a no-brainer. And yet, like many of the Bible’s teachings, it’s counter-cultural in our time. If you watch television commercials, for instance, or read popular magazines or pop-up ads, you get the strong message that abundance of life isn’t found by giving and receiving, but by getting and keeping as much as you can.  I know a man who was captivated by this illusion. Growing up, he was taught to strive mightily for awards and applause. And he internalized the belief that this is what life requires, this is what abundance means. He learned to see other people---friends, lovers, associates, customers---as means to an end, commodities to be acquired and attached to his life. As the saying goes: he used people and loved things, rather than the other way around. And in worldly terms, you might look at him today and say that he’s been successful.  But when you look more closely, you notice that this man, now in his late fifties, lives alone in a big, empty house. He has been married and divorced five times. His ex-wives say, “All that man can do is take; he doesn’t know how to give.” His children, scattered around the country, have little to do with him. They angrily tell their therapists that their father never loved them. He cared only about how they made him look, rather than loving them for who they were.  When Thanksgiving comes this week, this man will go to a restaurant for dinner. He will come home, pour himself a scotch, and stare in genuine bewilderment at a phone that doesn’t ring. Where did he go wrong? He did what he was taught to do. He worked hard; he went after what he wanted, believing that this was the key to abundant life. Now his life is like a cup that’s filled to the brim but never poured out, never shared. His house, filled with showcase furniture, is still.  I’m sure you know other versions of this same story, of the person who takes in and in and in, but only knows how to hoard and hold, rather than let go and give. What you see when you look at such a person is the tragic consequence of not knowing---or disregarding---the spiritual law that abundance of life requires not only receiving, but also giving.  However, as I look around this room this morning, my guess is that more of us who are here probably err in the other direction. I am talking about those among us who, as a result of our conditioning, hold the belief that abundance of life is not about receiving at all, but about giving…and giving … and giving of ourselves, even to the point of giving ourselves away.  I think of a woman I know. She was taught, early on, that her role in life was to be endlessly nurturing of others. In high school she listened to everyone else’s problems. Her mother liked to say that she “was always taking in strays”: stray animals, and stray people. She was married at a young age, to a man who had problems that she hoped her unstinting love would fix.  This woman became a nurse (are you surprised?). She works long, hard hours at a hospital, doing her best to care for each patient assigned to her. But there are too many patients, and she keeps a killing pace. She habitually skips breaks and works overtime, neglecting her own needs for things like rest and renewal. And others have come to count on her to do so, again and again and again.  This woman’s husband left her because, as he said, “she couldn’t meet his needs.” They had both shared the belief that she should have, and, that if she’d just tried harder, she could have. Her friends tell her to stop being a doormat. Her grown children, however, call her a saint. She never thinks of herself, they say; she is always thinking of other people, putting them first.  This week, when Thanksgiving comes, this woman will cook a meal for twelve members of her family, plus a few “strays.” Later, she will stand at a kitchen sink overflowing with dishes. Up to her elbows in soapy water, she will catch her own reflection in the steamed-up kitchen window. She looks tired; her inner resources are depleted. She wishes she could just…stop. But what would all the people who are depending on her do then?  We all know someone like this woman. Some of us are her, to some degree. And the odd thing is, this woman, who gives and gives to others, like a cup that is continually being poured out but not adequately replenished, has much in common with the man who only takes and takes. Both of them, in their own ways, lead diminished lives. Both feel confused and alone. For both have impeded the essential flow of life, by refusing--or not knowing how--to give and receive.  What about your life? Is it out of balance, in one direction or another? Is there too much receiving, and not enough giving of yourself to others? Or too much giving, and not enough receiving? What would it look like if you found a healthier rhythm between the two?  We might ask the same of any relationship we are in---at work, at home, and in our social lives. Is one party in the relationship doing too much giving—of time, say, or attention, or affection---and the other too much taking? Or is there a good ebb and flow? Are both parties being blessed by the relationship? Or do some adjustments need to be made?  The same question can be applied to groups and whole communities. In your family, for instance, is there an expectation that every member has something to contribute, as well as much to receive? And in a larger group, like this congregation, say, is there a healthy circulation of the gifts of time, energy, money, work, and prayer, for the blessing of all? Or, as is the case in many groups, are 20% of the people doing 80% of the giving?  Do you remember the description of the thriving early church described in the Book of Acts? We’re told that all its members gave what they could, and received what they needed, so that “there was not a needy person among them.”iv And “day by day, as they spent much time together in the temple, they broke bread and ate their food with glad and generous hearts.”v  Now, I’m not implying, this morning, that we should give to others in order to receive back. That’s just another way of plotting how to gain more and more for ourselves. The biblical principle of circulation has to do with freely and joyfully participating in a blessing economy, in which God plots goodness for all. It means giving and receiving with glad and generous hearts. It mean asking not, “What can I spare?” but “What can I share?”  I recently came across something called “a commitment to the law of giving and receiving.”vi Let me commend it to you, this morning, as a spiritual practice that might be especially good during the approaching holidays. The commitment has three parts, which are to say: i Luke 6:38 ii I don’t know the original reference for this quotation by Billy Graham, but it is widely available in books and on-line. iii From the 23rd Psalm iv Acts 4:34a v Acts 2:46-47b vi This is also widely available, in various forms (and from a surprising range of sources!) I found it through the Chopra Center on-line at http://www.chopra.com/the-law-of-giving-receiving. I have adapted it for this sermon. 1. Wherever I go, and whomever I encounter today, I will bring them a gift. The gift might be a compliment, a flower, some material resource, a word of encouragement, a smile, or a prayer. And each time I meet someone, I will silently wish them peace, fulfillment, and joy. 2. Today I will gratefully receive all the gifts that life has to offer to me. I will give thanks for the gifts of nature: the sound of birdsong, or the first snow of winter. I will likewise seek to recognize and receive the blessings that come to me from and through other people. And: 3. Today I will make a commitment to participate in the process of circulating God’s blessings, in my life and in the lives of others, especially by giving and receiving life’s most precious gifts: the gifts of attention, caring, help, appreciation and love.  Which reminds me of something else that happened, this past week. On Wednesday night, the power in my neighborhood was still out. I was anticipating a dinner of crackers and cheese and another early bedtime in a chilly house. Instead, the phone rang: a neighbor inviting me to come to her motor home, parked in the driveway and equipped with its own generator. She said, “Come on over! We have heat and lights!”  What happened next was like a parable for today’s theme. Neighbors came out of their darkened houses: kids in pajamas, adults in bathrobes, bearing gifts of food, cookies, wine, and cider to be warmed on the stove. Soon there was an impromptu party going on! Neighbors happily squished together in that motor home, with golden light spilling from its windows into the street. People eating and drinking, laughing and talking, giving and receiving, with glad and generous hearts.  In a few minutes we will have the opportunity to bring our pledges and offerings to the altar, dedicating them to God’s good purposes for all. After the [second] service we will gather downstairs to celebrate the abundance in this place through a dessert potluck, kids running around, holiday crafts, a short story for Thanksgiving, and conversation with friends, old and new. Today is a feast of good things! It’s also an act of faith and commitment as, like Abraham and Sarah, we participate in God’s way of blessing the world.  Amen.      