Faces at the Manger: “John the Baptist” a sermon for Advent I 11-29-15 by the Rev. Dr. Kathlyn James at EUMC text: Matthew 11:2-11, 14:1-13a  Today is the first Sunday in Advent, the season in which we prepare our hearts for the coming of Christ. And at the beginning of Advent, in all three years of the lectionary cycle---that is, the prescribed scripture readings for Sunday morning---we always encounter John the Baptist.  You remember that John the Baptist is a wild character in the gospel stories. He ate locusts for breakfast and lived out in the desert, where he called people to prepare for the coming Messiah by repenting of their sins. In our texts for today, John has dared to speak that way even to the king. John has said to King Herod: “Your behavior is a disgrace to our nation and an affront to God!” Herod has responded, as you might expect, by saying, “You’re under arrest.” So now John the Baptist has been thrown into prison in the dungeon of Herod’s palace, near the shore of the Dead Sea.  The Herods had been the ruling dynasty of Israel for several generations. We hear about two King Herods in the gospel story. First there is Herod the Great, who was on the throne when Jesus was born. Herod the Great was something like the Godfather of the Herodian dynasty. He was famous for his cowardice, ambition, and greed. (Actually, looking at Herod’s family tree, I think somebody could make money by basing a television series on it. It would be every bit as sensational as ABC’s hit series, “Scandal.” “The Herodians”---don’t you think that has a nice ring to it?)  Anyway, Herod the Great married ten times, an abomination to the monogamous Jews. With all those wives and children in the palace, a lot of intrigue went on, especially since Herod was terrified that a member of his family would someday kill him and seize his throne. So he beat them to it: he poisoned several wives and murdered three of his own sons. It was this paranoia that prompted the terrible “slaughter of the innocents” we read about in scripture. When Herod heard that the successor to his throne had been born in Bethlehem, he ordered that all male infants in that city be killed.  That’s Herod the Great. And the second Herod we hear about in scripture, known as Herod Antipas, was one of his sons (one who survived). Herod Antipas ascended the throne after his father died, amazingly, of natural causes. This is the Herod in today’s text, the king who threw John the Baptist into prison for criticizing him publicly. This is also the Herod who would one day preside over the crucifixion of Jesus.  Herod Antipas continued his family traditions of scandal, including incest and murder. The particular incident that provoked John the Baptist to condemn him was his recent marriage to his niece, Herodias, who was also married to Herod’s brother at the time. Herod had eliminated that obstacle, however, by killing his brother. John spoke out against all this. He preached that even kings are not exempt from God’s moral laws. So now he’s in prison, in the basement of Herod’s palace.  The story goes on, and I think I know how the producers of a TV series called “The Herodians” would film it. They’d show the revelry, one night, in the dining hall of the palace. There would be Herod, surrounded by smiling flatterers, carefully groomed women, and slaves with expressionless faces. He’d be lying on a couch and gorging on food and wine. Then music with a sensuous, pulsating rhythm would begin, and Herod would watch, with a lecherous smile, while his stepdaughter, Salome, danced for the whole company.  At the end of her performance, Salome bows before the king. Expansive with wine, Herod looks her over, slowly, and makes a grand gesture. He offers to give Salome anything she wants, anything at all. Salome glances at her mother, Herodias, who sits in jewels on a cushion near Herod, her new husband. Then Salome looks back at Herod, and says, “Give me the head of John the Baptist on a platter.”  There is a shocked silence. Herod himself regrets his rashness; this is sure to cause a furor among the Jews. But he’s the king, and he’s given his word. So he issues the order, and within an hour, there it is: a decapitated head with John’s glittering, dead eyes, looking up from a serving dish. Salome takes the platter and presents it to her mother, revealing who it was who had instructed her to make this request. Herodias looks coolly down at the head of the foolish prophet who had dared to condemn her marriage to the king. Then she smiles, snaps her fingers, and the party goes on.  That’s how a TV producer might tell the story. And that’s how it was circulated at the time, reported in much the same way that our news media today focuses on stories about violence, crime, and corruption in high places. It’s the way Josephus, the Roman historian from whom we get most of our information about the times of Christ, reports the story. A prophet challenges the tyrant king; his head rolls; and the party goes on. The end.  But there is another kind of writer who tells this story, one who is also a dramatist, a news analyst and a historian, but who sees and interprets events through a different lens. These are the gospel writers. And this morning I want us to look at how Matthew, one of the gospel writers, tells the story a little differently than the other interpreters of his day.  Like the others, Matthew tells about what’s happening on the dance floor in Herod’s palace. He tells the whole gruesome story, ending with John’s head on a plate. But before that, Matthew drops his lens from the dance floor of the palace and invites us to look beneath it, down in the dungeon where John the Baptist, with chains around his ankles, paces in the dark.  John knows that his own death is imminent. Nobody openly defies Herod and lives. But his own personal fate is not what John is agonizing over now. He has believed himself called to be a prophet, the forerunner of the Messiah, and he wants to know: Did I accomplish what I was supposed to do with my life? Is my work finished? The uncertainty is tormenting him. He anxiously sends his disciples to Jesus with the question, “Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another?”  I want you to notice the poignancy of this passage. Remember John in his earlier days, when he baptized Jesus in the River Jordan? In those days, John had stood knee-deep in the river and roared like a lion to all who came out to hear him preach. And crowds of people had responded, asking to be baptized. John’s faith had been strong in those days. When Jesus came to the Jordan, John had recognized him immediately, saying, “This is the Son of God.”  But now, in the darkness of a prison cell, faith comes harder to John. In his glory days, when things were going well, he had known that Jesus was the Messiah. Now, with the executioner sharpening his sword down the hall, he is not so sure. What once was easy to believe is now terribly hard. It’s a poignant scene in the Bible: John the Baptist in prison, struggling to believe. He sends a messenger to Jesus with the agonized question: “Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another?”  John’s disciples soon return, bearing a reply from Jesus. They whisper through the barred window: “Tell John what you hear and see: the blind receive their sight and the lame walk, lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear, and then poor have good news preached to them…” John recognizes these words from Hebrew scripture, where the prophet Isaiah says: “Strengthen the weak hands and make firm the feeble knees. Say to those who are of a fearful heart, ‘Be strong, and do not fear! Here is your God…Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped; then the lame shall leap like a deer, and the tongue of the speechless shall sing for joy.”  John strains to listen, searches the faces beyond the window, hears of Isaiah’s prophecies being fulfilled. “We’ve seen him, John,” his disciples tell him. “He’s come.” John leans back against the stone wall of his cell, and closes his eyes.  The disciples relate what Jesus said next, how he eulogized the man who is about to be executed: “Truly, I say to you, among those born of women there has risen no one greater than John the Baptist.” At this, tears slide from beneath John’s lids, and down his matted beard. He has accomplished what he was called to do. His life’s work is finished, and approved by God. He can die in peace.  Why do we look at this story on the first Sunday of Advent, four weeks before Christmas? Why are we to ponder the grisly death of John the Baptist, right before we celebrate the birth of Christ? Because Advent is a season of hope, and John the Baptist, bound in chains but sending a messenger with the question, “Are you the one, or are we to look for another?” is our model of hope. And because this story in Matthew, focused on what’s happening in the basement while Herod and his friends revel in the palace, is a story about our grounds for hope in this world.  Matthew tells the story differently than a TV producer or a newscaster might tell it, and differently than a historian who chronicles history in terms of wars and the machinations of political powers. Matthew tells what’s going on behind the scenes, telling us that even though we live in a world where Herod always seems to be on the throne and John the Baptist always seems to be in chains, there is another kind of power at work in the world and in our lives. Unnoticed, unseen, quietly working in the basements beneath the thrones, the power of God will outlast all empires and outlive all tyrants.  Do you believe that? That’s the question our text puts to us this morning. It’s the age-old question of how we can have hope in a world in which there is so much evil. John the Baptist is a prisoner on death row. Herod gets to keep his head, and everything else too: his crown, his wives, his wealth. Herod has the greater power here….or does he?  The philosopher Alfred North Whitehead once observed, “The most important thing you can say about evil is that is has no power to endure.” Evil destroys and kills, so what is left by the work of evil is something that has no life. Evil can’t be sustained except by violence, and violence ultimately destroys itself. Every evil empire that has ever existed in human history has collapsed. There never has been one that has endured.  Goodness, on the other hand, has power to endure. From a gospel writer’s point of view, goodness should not be thought of as some titanic force that will match the forces of evil violence for violence, and ultimately win out. No. Goodness doesn’t work that way. It doesn’t try to crush its opponents; it simply goes about the business of serving the cause of life. Evil writes history in terms of rulers and regimes that rise and fall. Goodness is an underground river that turns the wheels of history, and carries life forward.  What was it that Jesus said, in his message to John in prison? “The blind receive their sight and the lame walk, lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear… the poor have good news preached to them.” In other words, while all the scandalous uproar is taking place on the palace dance floor of history, the power of God is quietly at work wherever people are healing, teaching, serving, liberating, loving, and caring for one another. Archbishop Desmond Tutu puts it this way: “Here is our basis for hope in this world: not the absence of darkness, but the presence of light.”  Well, what do you think? Where is the greater power located---with King Herod in the palace, or with John the Baptist in the basement?  You see, as we begin to prepare our hearts for the coming of Christmas---when Herod will be on the throne and a baby in a manger---the gospel writer wants us to ponder these questions. With which of these powers will we cast our lot? On whom will we pin our hopes?  Amen. 