



Breakfast with Jesus

Reading scripture
John 21:1-14
Sermon topic 
Breakfast with Jesus
Preacher
Stephen Wong
Date
2011-10-02
Presider

Worship Leader














Scripture Reading: John 21:1-14 (NIV)

1 Afterward Jesus appeared again to his disciples, by the Sea of Tiberias. It happened this way: 2 Simon Peter, Thomas (also known as Didymus), Nathanael from Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two other disciples were together. 3 “I’m going out to fish,” Simon Peter told them, and they said, “We’ll go with you.” So they went out and got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing.

 4 Early in the morning, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples did not realize that it was Jesus.

 5 He called out to them, “Friends, haven’t you any fish?”

   “No,” they answered.

 6 He said, “Throw your net on the right side of the boat and you will find some.” When they did, they were unable to haul the net in because of the large number of fish.

 7 Then the disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, “It is the Lord!” As soon as Simon Peter heard him say, “It is the Lord,” he wrapped his outer garment around him (for he had taken it off) and jumped into the water. 8 The other disciples followed in the boat, towing the net full of fish, for they were not far from shore, about a hundred yards. 9 When they landed, they saw a fire of burning coals there with fish on it, and some bread.

 10 Jesus said to them, “Bring some of the fish you have just caught.” 11 So Simon Peter climbed back into the boat and dragged the net ashore. It was full of large fish, 153, but even with so many the net was not torn. 12 Jesus said to them, “Come and have breakfast.” None of the disciples dared ask him, “Who are you?” They knew it was the Lord. 13 Jesus came, took the bread and gave it to them, and did the same with the fish. 14 This was now the third time Jesus appeared to his disciples after he was raised from the dead.


PRAYER
Let us bow in prayer: O Lord my God, earnestly we seek you; our souls thirst for you like a dry land thirsts for water. Our souls have seen you in the sanctuary; our souls have beheld your beauty; our souls have been satisfied with you-you are everything that we desire, that we want and that we need. And so Father, as we have worshiped you with songs, we now desire to worship you in our study of the Word. With our lips and with our lives, we cry out: “Holy Spirit, empty us and fill us with Thy self, so that we will display the presence, the power and the beauty of our Lord Jesus Christ in our lives wherever we go. So bless this Word to our hearts, feed us with your Holy mysteries, and change us, transform us so that you can be glorified through us. We pray in the  mighty, matchless and marvelous name of your Son Jesus. Amen.”

INTRODUCTION
Good morning. How many of you think that breakfast is important? How many of you had breakfast? How many of you had breakfast with Jesus? 

A national survey in another country found that 93% of the surveyed said that breakfast was essential. Breakfast is important for health, for alertness and for a long life. But only 44% of those surveyed actually have breakfast. I imagine that some of those 44% only have for breakfast a cup of Starbucks coffee-that was their breakfast. Today, we are going to find out a little bit more about breakfast with Jesus and how this treat gives us a fresh and new fire for God. Would you like that?

CHAPTER REVIEW
Since this is the final chapter of the Gospel of John, we will take a quick review. The book of John can be divided into four parts:

1:1-18
Prologue
1:19-17:26
The Son’s Signs &Secrets
18-20
The Son’s Sorrows
21
Epilogue

In John there are three noticeable sets of sevens:
The Seven Key Words
Father
121 times
Know
117 times
Believe
99 times
Truth 
66 times
Love
57 times
Life 
36 times
Light
23 times

The chart shows us their frequency of usage. It is not surprising: that God wants us to know and believe in Him that He is true, that He loves you and that He offers you life and light. 

The Seven Signs
The seven signs are particularly beautiful because they tell us so much about our God. 
Water into Wine
Jesus’ Power over Quality
Healing the Dying Son
Jesus’ Power over Distance
Healing the Invalid
Jesus’ Power over Time
Feeding the 5,000
Jesus’ Power over Quantity
Walking on Water
Jesus’ Power over Creation
Healing the Blind
Jesus’ Power over Darkness
Raising Lazarus
Jesus’ Power over Death

I think you can conclude safely that Jesus is powerful. He is God of awesome wonders. 

The Seven I AM
I AM the Bread of Life
I AM the Light of the World
I AM the Gate
I AM the Good Shepherd
I AM the Resurrection and the Life
I AM the Way, the Truth, the Life
I AM the True Vine

In the Old Testament, God revealed Himself in the burning bush and told Moses: “I AM WHO I AM”. The sentence is a little bit incomplete, but it is incomplete for a reason: Jesus completes the sentence by saying: “I AM the Resurrection and the Life”. Jesus completes the revelation of God, because God has been seeking to connect with you; and now He has connected with you through His beloved and only begotten Son: our Savior, precious Jesus. 

The previous chapter John 20 is about Jesus’ rising from the dead and His appearing over a forty-day period to His disciples. In particular He appeared to the ten without Thomas; then He appeared to the eleven including Thomas, where Thomas gave his confession of faith: “My Lord and my God!” It was a beautiful lesson: Seeing is not necessarily believing; it is really believing that is seeing. When we believe, we truly see-we see Jesus, we see the truth, we see God. 

John 21 can be divided into three parts:
1-14
Revelation of Jesus
15-17
Restoration of Peter
18-25
Redirection of Peter’s and John’s lives


SERMON
Today our focus is on 1-14, which can also be put into three parts:
1-7
Sovereign
8-12
Servant
13-14
Sufficiency

Let us dive in and see where God leads us in the revelation of Himself. 

 Sovereign
Scripture in Detail (John 21:1-7)
John 21:1-2
Afterward Jesus appeared again to His disciples, by the Sea of Tiberias. It happened this way: Simon Peter, Thomas (also known as Didymus), Nathanael from Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two other disciples were together.

Why were they by the Sea of Tiberias? 

Tiberias was the Sea of Galilee. The disciples were supposed to be there because Jesus had appeared to the woman and said: “Tell my brothers that I am going to meet them in Galilee.” The disciples were obedient and they went. Jesus did not show up right away so they had some time to wait. 

There were seven of them. 
You remember Peter: when everyone was deserting Jesus because of the Bread of Life discourse, Jesus turned to His disciples and asked them whether they would leave as well. Peter stood up and said: “Lord, to whom shall we go? You alone have the words of eternal life.” Peter was saying that Jesus was God and they could not go anywhere because they were His. 

You remember Nathanael: He confessed that Jesus was the Holy One of God and the King of Israel because Jesus said He saw Nathanael under the tree.

These men were lovers of God. And on that day they went fishing. It was not unusual that they were fishing-many of Jesus’ followers were fishermen. Fishing is a good image for ministry: it reaches out, captures and draws people into the net of God’s love.

John 21:3
What was the result of their fishing trip? Remember, these were professionals who were experienced and fully equipped. They had sailed on this lake all their lives-they knew the spots, the timing and everything about fishing-if you ever want to succeed in fishing, you stick with these guys. But what was the fishing result that night?

“I’m going out to fish,” Simon Peter told them, and they said, “We’ll go with you.” So they went out and got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing.

Nothing? With all these expertise, experience and equipment,  they caught nothing? 

It was not unusual to fish at night. The men lit the torches, attracted the fish using the torch light and then threw out the net for the reward. But that night was an unusual night: they caught nothing. 

It was not surprising. Jesus had told them a while back: “Apart from me, you can do nothing.” That hurts my human pride so much: I cannot do anything-even if it is something that I have been trained in, even if I have the best technology or even if I have everything going for me. I cannot do anything without Jesus. 

I know why: Because Jesus has given it to me in the first place. Everything that we are and everything that we have is not acquired by us; it was  given by God. Its source and origin is found in God. Now I understand: there is no place for pride or for ownership, because everything comes from God-the Creator of the universe and the Creator of all that is seen and unseen. Now if I get it: apart from Jesus, I can do nothing. Time, talents and opportunities are given by God, otherwise my life and history would have been nothing. Thank you, Jesus. Thank you.

John 21: 4
What happened after a futile night of fishing?

Early in the morning, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples did not realize that it was Jesus.

All through the night and the early morning, the overseer of their souls was watching. He is the One who watches over Israel, over the church and over you, and He never sleeps. He saw His friends going through such a difficult time. But for them He was there; He was near; and He was in prayer, because He cared. Was He not wonderful, that overseer of our souls? No matter how dark or how long that darkness endures, the Bible tells us that weeping may last throughout the night, but joy comes in the morning. 

One of my friends suffered from a very painful pregnancy throughout the night. When the doctors asked her what the name of her newborn would be, she answered after a silent prayer: Joy. For her it was really a joyful morning: when the doctor slapped the infant gently, air went into her lungs and she cried her first cry- the cry of joy. Joy-that is  what happens in the morning.

John 21:5
The disciples knew that it was Jesus’ custom to get up early in the morning and pray to His Father in solitary-a very good custom for us to follow.

Now that Jesus saw His disciples fishing. Did He say: “You failed me again-you deserted me and denied me-and now you are fishing”? No. Instead He said:

“Friends, haven’t you any fish?”

We know the word “friends” is charged with meaning. Jesus said: “Greater love has no one than this, that one lay down his life for his friends.” (KJV John 15:13) He also said: “I no longer call you servants… I call you friends.” (NIV John 15:15-17) 

-“You call me friend? But I am an outcast, a murderer and a liar…”
-“Yes, you are my friend when you believe in me.”
-“You make me your friend?”
-“Yes, because I have revealed everything my Father has designed for you to know. I have come to reveal everything for you.”
-“You have given me those hidden things and treasures? Me?”
-“Yes, you.”

You and I are His friends, and no one can undo that friendship. 

John 21:6
“Friends, haven’t you any fish?”
“No,” they answered.

The disciples possibly thought: “No, we did not catch anything. We are a failure, we must confess. We failed in the “Academy of Fishing”. But Jesus said: “I know you have problems and challenges, but I have solutions.” “That is great,” said the disciples, “because this is a very long night and we are tired, besides we do not want to come to shore and show the public that we have caught nothing. It is kind of embarrassing. So what is the solution?” 

He said, “Throw your net on the right side of the boat and you will find some.”

In the mean time Jesus was gathering those 153 fish so that when the disciples looked down into the water they saw those fish ready for capture. Isn’t Jesus such a wonderful God?

Obedience is the lesson. As soon as we obey, we can see that God has results for us. 

John 21:7
John now remembered that something similar had happened before-when they were first called by Jesus. 

Then the disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, “It is the Lord!” As soon as Simon Peter heard him say, “It is the Lord,” he wrapped his outer garment around him (for he had taken it off) and jumped into the water.

Peter completed a beautiful ten-point dive and swam to get to Jesus as if he was in a competition- he could not wait to be close to Jesus. It was too time-consuming for Peter to navigate the boat and the fishes were too heavy; he was leaving everything behind so as to reach Jesus. What a wonderful example of passion for God. 

1.2 Principle 1:
The secret to spiritual success is dependence and obedience.

You may not see a visible result, but God does. He is working out His plan, His way and His time. You will be successful in God’s eyes, and that is what counts. So depend on Him and obey Him.

Application Question 1 and Answers from the Scripture:
1.3.1 Questions:
How is living your own way working out for you?
How will you start living a Jesus directed life?

Before I became a pastor I had worked and worked and worked in the sales field, because if I did not work, I would have no customers; and if I had no customers, my boss would not have paid me a cent. So I understand that it is really hard when you are forced to study or work 24 hours a day. 

But Jesus says: “I have a solution. If you let me direct your life, you will have success.” Practically speaking, how can one have a Jesus directed life? 

1.3.2 Suggestions:
My suggestions are derived from today’s passage of the scripture:
(1)  Obey-be where God wants you to be and do what God wants you to do (John 21:1)
(2)  Listen for and to His voice-spend time waiting upon Him and listen (John 21:5-6)
(3)  Confess-admit that you have caught no fish and that what you are doing is not working (John 21:5)
(4)  Seek to be close to Jesus –be like Peter: take the dive to be close to Jesus (John 21:7)

The primary way of waiting is in His word. God has given us His word-the Bible- so that we can get close to Him and that we can be spiritually successful. 

Jesus, Our Servant
Scripture in Detail (John 21:8-12)
2.1.1 John 21:9
Jesus was so tender:

When they landed, they saw a fire of burning coals there with fish on it, and some bread.

Jesus was so caring; He knew that they had been working all night without any food so He prepared a delicious breakfast for them. The disciples were relieved.

Peter, however, was torn. The fire reminded him and the past came like a flood: it was at another fire side that he had denied his Lord Jesus. But Jesus did not say a word; He just offered them the food because He knew their needs. 

2.1.2 John 21:10
Jesus was gracious:

Jesus said to them, “Bring some of the fish you have just caught.”

But who really caught the fish? It was Jesus. But even if He did all the work, He wanted His followers to participate and be part of the team and the family. He wants us to be His friends in everything that He does.

2.1.3 John 21:11
Not only was Jesus gracious, He was also generous:

So Simon Peter climbed back into the boat and dragged the net ashore. It was full of large fish, 153, but even with so many the net was not torn. 

He gave the disciples 153 fish; not small fish, but large ones. God delights in blessing you abundantly, immeasurably, exceedingly, infinitely and beyond what you can ask or imagine. That is our God blessing you out of the glorious riches of His grace. He loves you and He spends so much in you. 

Besides, Jesus is our security: the net did not break. Jesus is like that gate of protection. Once we are in the Father’s hand, once we are His, no one can pluck us out. That is why we want as many people as possible in this city and this beautiful nation of China to be in the net of God’s love. That net will never tear. Once you are His, you will always be His.

2.1.4 John 21:12
It is where Jesus invites them: 

“Come and have breakfast.”

We love these “come” invitations when we first meet Jesus. He told His disciples, “Come and see. Come and experience a day with me. ” We also remember the “come” when Jesus’ disciples came back exhausted after a mission trip, before He said, “Come with me. Let’s get some rest.” We know these famous words: “Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest.” (Matthew 11:28) The best “come” is when He says “I am coming”-because sometimes we do not come, He comes; when we are not faithful, He is still faithful. And He says, “I am coming.” The Spirit says, “I am coming.” We want Him to come. Come, Lord Jesus. Come! Come into my life, come into my situation. Come. He tells you, “Come, too. I want you to come. There is no more distance between us. Come, Come, Come.” 

Principle 2:
The secret for spiritual progress and mturityis time with God. 
Your maturity and progress in the spiritual life is proportional to the time you spend with God. 

Application Question 2 and Answers from the Scripture:
Question: 
How can you make the time appointments that you have with Jesus a priority?

Suggestions:
Rise up early to be with God (John 21:4)
Many people tell me: “I am too busy. I got work to do; I got family situations to attend to.” 
Rise up early. Jesus rose up early. You can rise up early, too. Wake up at 4 or 3 or 2 o’clock. And make an unbreakable appointment with Jesus. 

Ask God to set your heart on fire (John 21:9)
As we see the fire and the course, we say: “Lord, light my heart up too; get me fired up again. I want to be excited for Jesus again. Renew that love, that first love that I had for you.. Fire me up again: I am not excited enough, get me excited for Jesus! Lord, make yourself more real and personal to me. Speak to me, fire me up! Let me burn, so that I will burn others around me with your love. Let me burn with your love. Let’s be burning ones as we worship God and as we walk as His witnesses.  

Bring your time, talents & treasure to God (John 21:10)
Submit to His Lordship (John 21:12)
Tell everybody: “It is the Lord.” 
-Why are you the way you are? -It is the Lord. 
-Why do you do what you do? -It is the Lord.
-How can you be so different? -It is the Lord.
And you are going to start experiencing a renewed love from God. 

Jesus, Our Sufficiency (John 212:13-14)
How did Jesus satisfy the disciples in verse 13? He satisfied them with His provision. In verse 14, He satisfied them with His presence and His resurrection power-He was raised from the death. And this is probably the most satisfying gift that He gave to us. We think we have many, many problems; some are solvable, for example family problems and work problems, while others are not, for example death. But God says: “I can satisfy you because I am your sufficiency. I satisfy you with my provisions, presence and power-the power to overcome sin and death. Those are our real problems: sin and death. But Jesus gives us the resurrection of life-an infinite life, an indestructible life, an invincible life, an incredible life and an incomparable life. He gives us life- real life, abundant life, life without end, life with unending joy, life with unending peace-LIFE, LIFE, LIFE. 

CONCLUSION
This is Jesus whom we worship and whom we serve. I pray that you’ve seen the great “I AM” today with me in the new light. I pray that He is going to be your God if you haven’t made that commitment to be His friend; He wants you to be His friend. And if you know Him, I pray you will seek Him with all your heart to have a deeper passion and relationship with God, so that when you live your life, love and light will overflow upon those around you, and people will say: “It is the Lord.” 



Written, edited and coordinated by Katherine and Chong, Proofread by Liu Laoshi, and the guiding of the Lord.








10/02/2011	Breakfast with Jesus Stephen Wong

 PAGE10 / NUMPAGES10
Haidian Christian Church



