To honor Him
Worship Team’s Prayer:
Yes Lord Jesus, it is our desire to honour you. Thank you for adopting us as your children. Thank you for being with us each day. Lord, may your name be glorified today. In Jesus’ name, amen.

Scripture Reading: John 12:1-8

Good morning, my dear brothers and sisters. I am really happy to see you all here and worship our God together. Now let’s bow down and pray together. 

Dear Lord, thank you so much for your love, for your calling. That’s why we can come here and to worship you and to get to know you. Lord, we know that we are not worthy for your death for us. Because we are sinners, we always sin against you. But God we know that you are merciful God. You are God of love. Lord, thank you so much for loving us, for saving us and for living in our lives. Lord Jesus Christ, today we ask the Holy Spirit to come upon us and reveal to us, let us know that Jesus Christ, you are worthy of all honor. I pray that God, please teach myself and please teach all my brothers and sisters here and let us know how great our God is, how deep you love us and let us know how we can honor you in our daily life. I pray in Jesus’ name. Amen. 

Dear brothers and sisters, I am so happy that today I can share with you from John12:1-11. As we know that Valentine’s Day is coming soon. So many people may think about getting or giving or receiving gifts. So I don’t know what kind of gift you want to buy for your wife or husband, for your boyfriend or girlfriend. I don’t know what kind of gift you may receive from them. But it reminds me of a short love story written by O. Henry. It is called The Gift of Maggie. It talks about there is a poor couple. They love each other so much, but they are so poor. They do not have money to buy each other gift. Before Christmas they try their best. They want to honor each other so they buy one great precious gift to each other. We know that from this story, the wife has long beautiful hair and husband has a precious watch. So that is why the wife sold her hair and bought a chain for her husband and the husband sold his watch and bought a comb for his wife. I was so touched by this love story. But maybe some people will have thought they are so foolish because they sold the greatest treasures of themselves and bought the gift, which was useless. Some people will have thought that it is worthy to honor each other. Some people will say that it is not worthy. 

Introduction to the History

Today I am going to share with you “to honor Him”. Here “Him” means Jesus Christ. So through the story, John12:1-11, in this story there is a lady. Her name is Mary and she used one of the most precious perfume to anoint Jesus’ feet. From this story we could find that some people criticized her but Jesus praised her. Some people may have thought from the earthly (point) that it is not worthy but Jesus said she did a great thing. Today I want to ask you and myself to think about if it is worthy or not to honor Him. So I am going to preach in two parts. The first part is “He is Worthy of All Honor”. The second part is “How to Honor Him in Our Daily Life”.

When we read Gospel John and we will find that in John 11, Jesus has raised Lazarus from death. Many people saw what Jesus did and put their faith in Him but some people did not. They tried to find a chance to kill Him. One day there is dinner for Jesus in His honor and on this day, Jesus visited the family of Martha, Lazarus and Mary. And from this scripture we will know that when Jesus visited them and Martha served Jesus by preparing a dinner and Lazarus sitting there and to honor Jesus by giving Him a witness because he was just raised from the death. And Mary poured a precious perfume on His feet to worship Him and honor Him. This is a very beautiful picture of all these three of Jesus’ friends, expressing their love for Jesus in different ways. Martha through the work in serving the dinner. Lazarus through his witness, who was raised from death by Jesus; and Mary through her worship by the fragrant offering. So I am going to focus on Mary because she was criticized. Through this scripture we found that one of the disciples said that, 

“Why wasn’t this perfume sold and money given to the poor?” 

1. He is Worthy of All Honour

But I will say that Mary did a great and right thing. First of all, because right after she poured the perfume on the feet of Jesus, the house was filled with the fragrance. She was a blessing to the people sitting in the house. 

Second, she treasured her opportunity to honor Jesus. From the Bible we know that when someone criticized Mary, Jesus said that, 

“You will always have the poor with you but you will not always have me.”

Right after Jesus was crucified and the disciples realized that Jesus said that because He was going to die on the cross and this is a great opportunity to honor Him. That is why Mary treasured every opportunity to honor Him. 

Third, there is another deep meaning. From the Bible, it is revealed to us that Jesus was going to die for us. Matthew told us that, 

“When she poured this perfume on my body, she did it to prepare me for burial.” (Matthew 26:12) 

She honored Jesus and Jesus honored Mary back. So from Jesus’ explanation, we will know that Mary takes every opportunity to honor Him. Mary, even she didn’t know that Jesus was going to die, but she really took every opportunity to honor Him. That is why Jesus honored her back.

In the Bible, Jesus said that, 

“I tell you the truth, wherever this gospel is preached throughout the world, what she has done will also be told, in memory of her”. 

So this is what Jesus did to honor her back. 

But we know that in the same room and in the same group, there is another different voice from that. And they thought, it didn’t worth to pour this precious perfume on Jesus’ feet. So Mary was criticized and misunderstood, but this is really a good lesson to me and to all of us. Let us think of that, is He worthy of it or not, is Jesus worthy or not. 

I think he is worthy of all honor, because Jesus is worthy, because of the gospel that He came to die for us, because He is almighty everlasting God, He is living God, He is creator, He is our savior, He is our counselor, He is our healer, He is our best friend and He is our all in all. That’s why he is worthy all of the honor, not only because he is almighty God, not only because he can do the great things, but also because the almighty God love the world, so He came to this world and became a person like you and me, and He died on the cross. The purpose is just to save all of us; the purpose is just to clean our sin, and the purpose is just to save us from the lost way, the purpose is just to open our eyes to see what the meaning of our life is, the purpose is just let us know that God is Jesus Christ, let us know what the meaning is that we are living on this world. 

So dear brothers and sisters, I just want you to know that from Psalm 116:8, it told us that, “for you Lord, have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumblings”, John Chapter 3:16 told us that, “for God so loved the world, that He gave His one and only son that whoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have eternal life”. And also Psalm 8：1 told us that, “how majestic is your name in all the earth! You have set your glory above heavens”. From all these Scriptures, we know that God is almighty God, and His glory is above all heavens. But He really wants to sacrifice Himself for all of us, and He wants to save us and He wants to let us have eternal life. 

So dear brothers and sisters, that’s why I want to say that Jesus is worthy of all honor. But it also makes me to think of another question that “why there is different voice and why the other people didn’t think in this way”. When I read this part of the Scripture, I found that one of these disciple had a very great excuse that, “why not sell the perfume and have the money given to the poor?”. And this is his excuse. But when we read later and we will find that John gave us the best explanation. He said that these people did not care for the poor, but he really cared about money. Because he was a keeper of the moneybag, the one who betrayed Jesus on the cross, and he betrayed Jesus by 30 slivers at that time. 

So dear brothers and sisters, from this Scripture, and we will know why people have different voice, why people don’t think in this way, why people don’t think Jesus is worthy of the honour of the pouring of perfume. Because they don’t think about Jesus, they don’t think about the poor, they only think about themselves, their money and their desire, their earthly desire. 

So dear brothers and sisters, from this Scripture, it told us that the people don’t think Jesus is worthy of all honor, instead, they will think, should I give Him (something) or not. When they think in this way, it means it does not matter what kind of excuse you have, but our desire is on money. 
Recently, I read an article about stewardship. The first topic talked about “where is your treasure, there is your heart.” So dear brothers and sisters, from this Scripture, Mary, Martha and Lazarus loved and honored Jesus in their own way, and they gave Jesus the best in what they had. All of the three of Jesus’ friends expressed their love for Jesus in different way, Martha by serving, Lazarus by witnessing, and Mary by worship with the fragrance. 

2. How to Honour Jesus in Our Daily Life?

I want to ask myself and challenge myself, ask you and challenge you, how can you honor Jesus in your daily life? There are three things that I am reminded of from the Scripture. 

The first thing is “to serve Jesus humbly”. From Martha and we know that she prepared dinner for Jesus and served Him humbly. And Mary poured the fragrance onto Jesus’ feet and wiped His feet with her hair and she served Jesus humbly. 

The second one is that “treasure every chance to honor Him”. And the third one is “to give Him the best”. 

Interlude of a Personal Story

I remember that last year, one day I got a cell phone call from one of the sisters, and she told me that, she got to know a person, who was 19 years old, and he had leukaemia. He is not a Christian. But he thought he was going to die, and he really wanted to ask one of the pastors to visit him, and to get to know Jesus. Because he thought that if he got to know Jesus, he could get healed. We went to visit him and prayed for him and we shared the gospel with him. And in the end, he said that, “I really want to accept Jesus as my own savior.” I really thank our God even he was going to die, but he really wanted to accept Jesus as his own savior. 

Later on, his sister said that, “If he is healed by Jesus, we can give all we have even if we want to let him to devote the rest of his life to Jesus Christ.” After I heard what she said, it is very natural that people will not think about God until they are going to die. People will not give all they have and devote themselves to Jesus until they are going to die. But today, I want to encourage you and myself, do not wait until (it is) too late. Mark 12:30 tells us,

“Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.”

From now on, love your God the Lord with all your heart, all your mind, all your soul and all your strength, and God will give it back to you. And serve Him humbly. Treasure every chance, give Him the best. But some people do not think in this way. They think they can donate to Jesus Christ, to the church; let’s honour Jesus, but let’s not get silly about it. Let’s anoint Jesus but not with expensive stuff; let’s serve Jesus but let’s not be crazy about it. This is what people might be thinking about. Yes, I can give some to Jesus Christ; I can give when I have extra; I can serve Him when I have enough time; I can serve Him when I have enough ability. 

But dear brothers and sisters, we know that Jesus Christ saved us and He gave us eternal life and He is our friend. He is not a sinner, but He died on the cross for our own sins. And what we have is from God. God gives us what we have, to be good stewards to what He has given us. So, we give Him back because we are grateful with what He has done for us. But not because… some people would think that, if I give Jesus one hundred RMB, and then Jesus will have to heal my disease, my illness, and Jesus will give me a great family, good things as well. 

Instance of Hudson Taylor’s Story

Dear brothers and sisters, there is a great example and many people know his name – his name is Hudson Taylor. Several years ago, I went to one of the churches in Zhejiang, it is called Gospel Church. Maybe we can see the picture (on the screen). And this is one picture I took from that church. What is written on that is what Hudson Taylor said. He said that,

“If I had a thousand pounds, China should have it; if I had a thousand lives, China should have them. No! Not China, but Christ. Can we do too much for Him? Can we do enough for such a precious Saviour?”

This is what Hudson Taylor said. He is one of the people to share the gospel to China. And he is one of the people to give their lives in China. And he is one of the people to donate all they have to Chinese church, and Gospel Church is one of the churches he built. But he said that, no, not China, but Jesus Christ. Why did he say that? He said, can we do too much for Him? Can we do enough for such a precious Saviour? Because he knows Jesus more, he owes Jesus this much, that is why he said, can we do too much for Him? Can we do enough for such a precious Saviour?

Dear brothers and sisters, when Mary anointed Jesus with such precious perfume, which has cost her one year salary. And now, how much do you have for a year’s salary? When I read this part of the Bible, it made me very sad; I felt very sorry because I never gave one year’s salary once to Jesus Christ; because I did not give Him the best. But today, from this Scripture, I want to share with you and also myself – He is worthy of all honour. I want to ask you and myself, from now on, we can think about how we can honour Him in our daily life; how we can serve Him humbly; how we can treasure every chance to honour Him; how we can give the best to Him.

Questions for Reflection and Application

Dear brothers and sisters, here are some questions for you. I got to know that the average salary is about 65683 in Beijing last year. If you have a year’s salary or time to use for Christ, how would you use it? How is that reflected in your budget and priorities now? These are the things I want to ask you about, and they are the things I am thinking about recently.

Dear brothers and sisters, this is the end of my sermon, and I ask you to think about these questions. And from next Sunday, we are going to start a sermon series, the purpose is that all of us could live out a Christian life in our daily life. So we hope we can pray for that. From next Sunday, we are going to start a new sermon series, which is called “At Work”. It is talking about how we can glorify and honour God at work. And then, we are going to go through Ephesians, from your daily life, different areas, how can we honour Him in our life. May God bless all of us, Amen.

Holy Communion

Gloria: We are going to have the Holy Communion together. It will be lead by Pastor Jessica. We know that Holy Communion is prepared for all the believers, so when we think about ourselves, what Jesus has done for us on the cross, prepare our heart, confess our sins and take the bread and cup together. So if you receive the bread and the cup first, please wait for every one to be served, and we will take the bread and cup together. Welcome Jessica.

Jessica: Dear brothers and sisters, we are going to take the Holy Communion. We do this in remembrance of the love of Jesus Christ for us, His dying for us on the cross for our sins. Before we take the Holy Communion, let all of us pray together, and think about… confess our sin and give thanks to Him. So let’s all stand. I will give you one minute to pray for yourselves, and then I will end with a prayer.

Our dear Heavenly Father, we thank you, thank you so much for sending your One and Only Son Jesus Christ to us. Lord Jesus Christ, now, all my brothers and sisters and myself come in front of you, we want to open our heart, and we want to tell you, Jesus Christ, that we are so sorry for the things we have done, which sin against you, against our family, against our friends, and against our neighbours. Lord, we are so thankful that because even we are sinners, we are not going to die, because you say if we confess our own sins and you are faithful, you will clean our sin and you will forgive us. Lord Jesus Christ, thank you so much for your precious blood, and cleaning our sin, washed away, making us so pure. God, thank you for the Holy Communion, for the blood and body, please let us be unified in you through the blood and body. Please let us live out our Christian life in our daily life through our Jesus Christ. We pray in Jesus’ name, Amen.

1 Corinthians 11:23-36
23 For I received from the Lord what I also passed on to you: The Lord Jesus, on the night he was betrayed, took bread,
    24 and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body, which is for you; do this in remembrance of me.
    25 In the same way, after supper he took the cup, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood; do this, whenever you drink it, in remembrance of me.
    26 For whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.

Brothers and sisters, you may be seated. When our brothers and sisters (volunteers) come to you, if you are a Christian, you can have the bread and the cup. In the end, we will have the Holy Communion altogether. 

Let’s all rise. Let us take the Holy Communion together with a thankful heart. Let us pray:

Dear Lord, our Jesus Christ, thank you so much for your love for us, thank you so much for your body and your blood, (with) which you clean our sin; through you, we have been accepted. Lord, thank you so much for the fellowship, which you give us here. Please let us love and build each other up in Jesus Christ. Lord, thank you so much for the daily bread, which you give us. Thank you so much for the money you give us, with which we can honour you, and donate, and give it to others. Lord Jesus, thank you so much for the hope you give us when we are hopeless, and thank you so much for the eternal hope you give us. Lord, we are looking forward to you coming again. We pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.

Carol: Yes, our Lord Jesus Christ deserves everything. So we want to encourage you to give our life, soul and heart to Him, to live our daily for Him, to surrender our daily life to Him. “I Give You My Heart”.

Welcome song.
Lord’s prayer.

Transcribed and edited by Christine, Hui Ren, Franz and Katherine with the grace, love and patience from our Lord Jesus Christ.








To Honour Him
Jessica Wang                                                                   12 February 2012

PAGE  


PAGE  1
Haidian Christian Church



