


What is Right Attitude about Work

Scripture Reading
1 Thessalonians 4: 11-12
Colossians 3: 23-24
Sermon Topic
What is Right Attitude about Work
Preacher
Rachel
Date
26th February 2012
MC
Carol



Carol:
I believe many of you hear this name Jeremy Lin very often recently. Jeremy Lin is a very famous NBA basketball player, and he is also a Christian. He says that he plays basketball for God’s glory. When I heard that, I was really touched. So here, dear brothers and sisters, are we working or studying for God’s glory? Do we have the right attitude towards our work? Let us pray.

Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for this beautiful morning. Thank you for giving us the ability to work. Lord, we want to honour you, we want to be the salt and light in our working places. Dear Jesus, please help us understand and also live out your words through our work. Lord God, we also lift up the whole service here before you, please be with the congregation, the preacher and the volunteers. Lead us into your presence, help us see your face, may your name be glorified today. In Jesus’ name I pray, Amen.

1 Thessalonians 4: 11-12
Make it your ambition to lead a quiet life, to mind your own business and to work with your hands, just as we told you,
so that your daily life may win the respect of outsiders and so that you will not be dependent on anybody.

Colossians 3: 23-24
Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart, as working for the Lord, not for men,
since you know that you will receive an inheritance from the Lord as a reward. It is the Lord Christ you are serving.

Today, Pastor Rachel is going to share a sermon with us entitled What is the Right Attitude about Work. Let’s welcome her.

Pastor Rachel:
Introduction
Good morning, dear brothers and sisters. I am so happy that we can share God’s Word together today. We started a series of sermons called At Word last Sunday. From that we know “Why do we work? Because God works, because God calls, and He is honoured through our work”. Because work is a calling from God, God works, and He expects people to do the same. So today, we will focus on “What is the right attitude about work”.

Let’s discover together some biblical principles when we reflect on these verses. 

First, Christians should work hard or diligently. Once I listened to a sermon, the priest said that our God works very hard, He created this universe. And when our Lord Jesus Christ came to this world, He did not choose to be a philosopher, artist or CEO or other well – paid personnel, but chose to be a carpenter to work with His hands. This should make us think about our attitude toward work. Sometimes we think that work is a chore, work is a burden, so we do not wan to work, or we do not like our jobs, and we complain how boring our job is. And sometimes, we become lazy and seek to avoid work if we can. But here, the problem is not what kind of work you do, but your attitude to it. In Genesis chapter 1, we learn that God is a God who works, and He delights in His work. Genesis 1: 31 says,

“God saw all that He had made, and it was very good.”

Christians must not be lazy. Ecclesiastes 9: 10 says,

“Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with all your might.”

Romans 12: 11,
“Never be lacking in zeal, but keep your spirit fervor, serving the Lord.”

This is a value in all kinds of work. As Christians, we should work diligently.

Second, Christians should work honestly. Some people may think that work is a way to increase our status, or a pathway to make money or wealth. But as Christians, we know that work is a calling from God. So we are not just working for our masters, but working for our God. Ephesians 6: 5-6,

“Slaves, obey your earthly masters with respect and fear, and with sincerity of heart, just as you would obey Christ.
Obey them not only to win their favour when their eye is on you, but like slaves of Christ, doing the will of God from your heart.
Serve wholeheartedly, as if you were serving the Lord, not men,
because you know that the Lord will reward everyone for whatever good he does, whether he is slave or free.”

Here Paul calls people to examine two areas of life in our workplace, outward performance and inner heart. Paul directs us to consider carefully the expectations of those for whom we work. Work does mean to obey our earthly masters with respect and fear. The person who performs well only win the prizes of the boss, but not quality. To work under an employer or supervisor does mean that at the end of the day, my work must please him or her. His or her expectation becomes the standard of my job. But here Paul says that our God is the supervisor no matter what kind of job we do, no matter what kind of work we do, we should please our God. No matter who is your boss, the real boss is God, and the Lord will reward everyone for whatever good he does. In Colossians chapter 3, verse 23 to 24 says,

“Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart, as working for the Lord, not for men,
since you know that you will receive an inheritance from the Lord as a reward. It is the Lord Christ you are serving.”

I know there are many brothers and sisters who have their jobs and also serve at church. When they go to work, they are excellent workers, and good testimony of God. When they serve at church, they serve others with all their heart, because they can serve God both at their workplace and at church. So what is our attitude about work? Some reflections here:

How does the gospel impact your life at work? 
Are you happy in your work? What would you change about your job or attitude towards it?

Third, Christians should rest from work. If we use some words to describe this world, what shall we say? I think it is “hurry, busy and worry”. Think about it, usually, when we call each other, or when we see each other, what is our first sentence? “Is it ok for you to take my call?” “Are you busy now?” “Do you have time?” It seems like there are so many things we need to do and we do not have time to rest. But you know what? God rest from His work. Genesis 2: 2-3,

“By the seventh day God had finished the work he had been doing; so on the seventh day he rested from all his work. 
And God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it he rested from all the work of creating that he had done.”

In fact, the rest is not because God needed a break in order to regain His strength; He is without limit and never exhausts. The principle of this day is given to us because we do not have infinite energy to continuously work without rest. God has created a nature to include the Sabbath. Even the lands and the animals need rest. All that God has made requires break from normal activities. Exodus 34: 21 says,

“Six days you shall labour, but on the seventh day you shall rest; even during the ploughing season and harvest you must rest.”

Sometimes we cannot stop; work goes crazy, because we think there are so many needs. But Jesus told us, “Do not worry about what you need in your daily life.” It does not mean that you need not work, it means that you should trust God. Some things are necessary in our daily life, but some are not. But we usually get confused over what is necessary in our daily life. So we work too hard to get what we desire to get.

If you are very successful in your job, but you do not have time to take care of your family, if you do not have time to play with your kids, and if you do not have time to worship God, what a pity! Isaiah 58: 13-14 says,

“If you keep your feet from breaking the Sabbath and from doing as you please on my holy day, if you call the Sabbath a delight and the LORD's holy day honourable, and if you honour it by not going your own way and not doing as you please or speaking idle words,
then you will find your joy in the LORD, and I will cause you to ride on the heights of the land and to feast on the inheritance of your father Jacob.”

Maybe today we are not observing the Sabbath as it is commanded in the Old Testament, but still, we need to think about how we balance our (personal) time and job. Work is just a part of our life, it is not the whole life. But some people today, they treat work as the purpose of their lives. so they become the slaves of money or work. If we think we could prove ourselves by work, we could never get real rest.

Two weeks ago, I went with a mission partner to preach, and I met a brother. When I saw him, I asked him how his job was. And he said he really thanked God, during the interview for his new job, he told the boss that he was a Christian and he needed to worship God on Sundays. So if they give Sunday off to him, he would accept the new job. And they said yes. When this brother shared his story with me, I was so encouraged by his faith. Maybe this man may not be successful, maybe he may not make a lot of money, but he is certainly a wise man, because he knows he needs rest. God has created the nature to include the Sabbath. How can we balance our time?

Fourth, Christians have honors and glorify God through work.
Let’s see a picture. You know this man, right? Just now Cathy mentioned about him. He is very popular and famous now. He is a rising NBA star and a devout Christian. 
He has said this, “I am not working hard and practicing day in and day out so that I can please other people. My audience is God.” And in another interview, he said, “I am really passionate about Christianity. And help others. There is beauty in seeing people change their lives for the better.” Good stuff, right? 

I think the relationship at your workplace needs to be developed with grace and forgiveness too. Rebuilding this presence of Lord in our work is powerful and transforming. The person who daily recognizes the presence of Christ in all of life will have transforming impact upon others. For Christians we are working for God’s glory and to help others. 

Some Reflections:
How often do you pray for those with and for whom you work?
What changes might occur if you lived your faith in the workplace?
In what ways do you believe that God will use you in the lives of others with whom you work?
How do you reveal the presence of God in your life and place of work?

We need to think about it. 

The last one, Christians depend on Christ in their work.
Psalm 127:1-2,

“Unless the Lord builds the house, its builders labor in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchmen stand guard in vain. In vain you rise early and stay up late. Toiling for food to eat - for He grants sleep to those He loves.” 

These verses remind me of a man named Joseph in the Old Testament. He was the younger and favored son of Jacob. However, his brother sold him to Ishmaelite slave traders. They took him to Egypt and sold him to Potiphar, one of Pharaoh’s officials. He was forced to live and work in the most difficult circumstances, but the Bible told us later, the quality of his work, with the trust of Potiphar, lead to significant promotions, he was placed to in charge of the entire estate. This slave became the master of Potiphar’s household and all his possessions. When Potiphar’s wife falsely accused him of an attempted rape, Joseph was put in prison and had to do the prisoners’ work. He won the favourable attention and trust of the warden, this slave was placed to be in charge of the entire prison, the warden.  And the chief jailer entrusted everything to Joseph’s oversight. What could possibly cause this man who had been treated with so much injustice for so many years to exemplify such work excellence?

Genesis 39:23,

“Because the Lord was with Joseph and gave him success in everything he did.”

When we go to work, it is not just simply about we go to work by ourselves. And if we think we can do a good job by ourselves, it’s not true. God is the one who watches over the city, God is the one who builds the house, God is the one who makes you sleep, God is the one who helps you and goes with you in your workplace and in your daily life.

Conclusion
Let us: thank our God for our job,
Pray for whom we work,
Keep our eyes upon our Savior, especially when it comes to our work,
May we experience Him and bring glory to Him in our daily life.
Well, I know there is a brother who has been working for more than thirty years. And now I would like to invite brother Wang to share about his experience with us. Welcome him.

Brother Wang
Hallelujah, praise the Lord, I am really touched by the worship and I think it is a wonderful thing when we sing “all for you, all because of you”. Because we stand here today, not because we are strong, or we are intelligent, or because we are wise, whatever; I mean, simply because of dear Jesus Christ, because of Him we can hear, we can testify for Him how great is our Lord and every aspect in our life. Praise the Lord. And I am also very encouraged to see so many young faces here and we all expect to live our life productively and to live our life to His glory. 

And before I start, I would like to have a little bit of introduction of myself. I am sixty-one year old, I’ve been working for thirty-five year, and two years’ military service. And I started work for Texas Instrument as production supervisor and cost accounting analyst, and then I did my job in the IT industry, and I worked for Johnson & Johnson for three years, only to computerize the company in operation back in Taiwan. And then I worked twelve years for Motorola on the production as well as on the region Asia - wise network. So there is my career life. And I stopped my corporate life and started my own business in 1999. And I live here for seventeen years now. 

So basically, I have been working all my life, but gradually I am changing a little bit. I started working very much for career. I spent about seventy percent of my time in severing the Lord. So that’s how I did. I have been on the production floor, so I know what is productivity, what is efficiency. I have been financial analyst, so I know what is money, and how to calculate the costs, how to drive the cost down and everything like that. And I have been on high-tech and basically on the computer from the very beginning I am talking about, say about twenty-five years ago. A lot of you may not even have been born at that time yet. So, (I have experienced) every aspect in the corporate life, and also as a businessman. 

But after all this, I was very touched by a presentation by a company I visited. The president made a presentation, talking about three things he was looking into: how he evaluated people. I mean, how do you evaluate people? 

One fundamental thing is that he must have a faith. He must have a passion for something. That is the whole purpose of his living, including his work. So the foundation is the faith. 

And the second thing he talked about is, how do you interact with the others, how do you treat the others, how do you work with the others. The third thing maybe very minor, also it is very important, but not as important as the other two -- the third one is your skill, your work skill, your computer, how good are you in computer and everything. So these three things: the foundation is your faith, the second thing is how do you interact with the others, and the third thing is your skill. 

The way I look at it, he (the president) is not a Christian, they all knew I was a Christian. So (while) I was seating the board, a lot of times, they asked me how I felt as a Christian on this kind of thing. 

I think one fundamental thing about your faith, the way I see it is your passion, what do you live for? What is the purpose of your work today? What is the purpose to have a family? What is the purpose you breathe in, breathe out everyday, every minute on this earth? what are you living for? If you don’t have a passion, a lot of times, I see, is that I cannot (understand). 

I sometimes feel sad. I may have been happy for a small success, but a lot of times I feel very sad about my failure. But if you have a passion, lots of times, it doesn’t matter anymore, you just live every minute; you know what you are living for. The success or the failure doesn’t matter, doesn’t count any more, because you know every minute you are living for something, you are (moving) forward to the direction, you know that’s right, that is what you are living for. So the small thing doesn’t matter any more, and this is exactly how I feel about the way I live today. I know there is a passion and the passion can support you, that passion can guide you to the direction that you are aiming. So that one most important thing is the passion, And the way I see it is that Jesus Christ, He made a prayer in John gospel, chapter seventeen, and He talked about,

“I thank you, I glorify you by doing the work you give to me.” (John 17: 4)

Basically there is something (in that) God gives our life living in this world that we have a purpose. We know something we are living for, and that’s exactly what we should target at.

That becomes the passion. That becomes the foundation of everything that we do. If you do not have that kind of passion, our foundations, a lot of times, will get up and down. Very easily, you can get frustrated, you can get disappointed. The way I see, every time I feel disappointed or frustrated, I will go back to my foundation, to my faith, and say, “Lord, help me, because I live for you, because here is something I want to live for your glory. Whatever I do, forget about the gain or loss, dear Lord, I want you to be glorified, I want your name to be known by the people around me so that I can live for your glory.” This is exactly (what we should try to do). 

And also in the Bible, it does indeed tell us “we all are priests”. We are the one to bring God to the people around us; we are also the one to bring people to God. So that is our role. And every time, when I see that, I behave, I act, or whatever I respond to this world, I try very hard, or I try my best (do not get me wrong, I do have failures), but a lot of time, I do want to say “Lord, I do want you to guide me, to let me to live more of you, to let people know more about you”.

The second thing about my attitude toward work. The Linsanity is a very good thing for us to ponder, to see and think about. His performance is not only the sport, not only the points. A lot of times, his performance is based on “to assist”, how much assistance he supports the others to succeed. The more I see, the more important to talk about the way you interact with the others. A lot of times, we want to make ourselves more announced to the others; a lot of times, we want to raise ourselves among the other people. 

But in the Bible, it does say “we are the servant”. We are the one to serve, we are the one to deliver, to help. Even when I was in the high level of the corporate life, I always see my role, even as a manager. My job is not to teach every one to do their job; I always see my job as the one to arrange the resources, or the necessary advice to help my staff to do their work. In other word, we are the servant. We are not the one high above to dictate “to do this to do that”; we are the one to work together, to help, to get things done. 

And I always see during my career when I see my staff, I know what kind of people I would like to help, to grow. And if the one is very selfish, or tries to hide everything behind something, and does not share it with the others. Those are the ones that I have difficulties with. And I always see that if you are open, you are frank, and you are helpful, and you are willing to hand out your hand to help others. Those are the ones that I always see as having a great potential. And in my career life, I have to say that each time, “I am not selfish, I try to help, to work with others, to work together”, I always see the servant attitude is very helpful to grow yourselves. So it is not how good you are, it is always (being) open and frank and try to help the others. 

And also, be confident of yourselves because the way I see it is that, I only see only 2.5% of super-intelligent, 2.5% of not so smart, but most of us, all of us here, we are of the similar intelligence, but we have to work very hard to improve ourselves. If you have the passion and the right attitude, then I think we can do a lot of work. And talking about “we are all working for the Lord”, I have to say one thing, one attitude in my career life that I feel very important – I will never allow my boss, my supervisor or my leaders to worry for my work. I am the one responsible for whatever I do. So I will not let some one to worry for my work, my responsibility. You have to hold it very tight and say “that is what I do”. Especially, when we are living our life, our working life to glorify the Lord, in that sense, no one can disgrace our Lord because of our performance if we try everything possible, everything to do our work diligently without disgracing the Lord. 

I have seen a lot of times, I have to say, unfortunately, in my observation that a lot of Christians working for a Christian boss. A lot of time they have excuses to say “oh well, I have to read the Bible; I cannot do overtime; I cannot do this simply because I have to do something for the Lord”. I have difficulty to deal with that kind of situation. I know that a lot of times we have to live our spiritual life faithfully, I do know that. I also know that we have the responsibility to glorify our Lord in our work regardless that we have to do it very hard. The Lord can be glorified through our work. And one thing I have to say is that we have the confidence in our Lord that whatever we do, if others can do, we also can do, and we can do better. That is also, as I see, Christians’ attitude toward work. 

Also, about your work, see a bigger picture. If you see a small picture, if you see what gain or loss at that particular instance, particular project, particular moment, then we can easily get frustrated. If you see a higher level picture, then you can see that “Lord, I have come here in this world. I live for a purpose. I want to demonstrate that our Christians live our lives very productively and wisely”. Then in a lot of times, we have to see a higher picture. In that sense, we do not have to worry too much about momentary gain or loss as we can see a higher picture. The way I see it, if you have a bigger picture, or if you see something on a higher level, suddenly, you can do a lot of better things because you have the direction right. You can do it a lot more wisely, and you won’t be frustrated or disappointed by a small momentary loss. So you will have a wider heart, a more intelligent adviser to live your life more productively.

One thing I always say is that you need to have a longer picture; you need to look as far as you can. A way that I measure people is that “how far can you plan”. Let’s say, if they only look at what to do today, what to do this afternoon, if that is all you can see, then a lot of times, we are very small, and we can be easily tied into very small thing. We won’t have an open heart, a big heart. The way I see it is that, the longer you plan, the longer you look, the further away you have a vision, the better.

For Christians, we are looking for this world, we are looking at what the Lord can give us so that we can live a mission, that we can glorify the Lord eventually in the very eternity that we can get His reward.

So, the way I see it is that you have to work with a purpose, with passion; and you have to treat the others, the people around you, as a servant, to help them, to work with them. Do not worry about yourselves, and also to live that the people around you would feel comfortable when you are there. That is exactly the way I see Jeremy is doing. I do not think he is a terrific player. He is a player because he can play very well with the others. He can help the others to be successful. And more importantly, he can help the team to be successful. If we have the mentality, I think the Lord will be glorified with our work. And also we have to work very diligently, with passion. Whatever you do, be confident, that the Lord will always give us the right wisdom and intelligence as we learn to have the right attitude, we can do the work much more productively and efficiently, and make it a success. At the end, the Lord will be honoured in whatever we do; and this is exactly the purpose that we are working for.

One more thing I would say is that, be balanced, have a very balanced life. Because (his phone rings/vibrates)… the hand phone to me is a curse, but it is also a blessing. It takes away 24/7 of life, and that is not really a wise thing to do. And we do not need to be working by 24/7 because I do not believe it will help us to be a successful person. We have to be wise; we have to look at a longer and bigger picture, because we do not have to make every minute at work, because who is looking after us? Our dear God! He takes care of the sparrows, he will take care of you. So leave it to Him. A lot of times, when I felt worried, I always said to the Lord, as a boy, “Lord, you are the boss; you are the one; you look after me; I don’t have to worry. Thank you Lord.” When you have the mentality, suddenly you will feel relieved, relaxed; and you will feel happy; you feel confident; you feel “yes, there is a purpose for me; I will live happily”; and you can help others very pleasantly. Suddenly, you feel that you could the Jeremy Lin in your team! You will not only be successful for yourself, you can help your team to be successful. At the end, every one is happy; and our Lord will be happy. Amen.

Transcribed, edited and uploaded by Esther, Franz and Katherine with grace and patience from the Lord.










What is Right Attitude about Work
Rachel                                                                       26th February 2012

PAGE  


PAGE  1
Haidian Christian Church English Fellowship







